2016-10-31	GS	Goldman pushes Apple for Time Warner bid	Upset at being sidelined for advising on the deal, Goldman (NYSE:GS) is trying to persuade Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) to make a rival bid for Time Warner (NYSE:TWX), according to the NY Post, which cited a source as saying the bank is "freaking out - trying to convince Apple to come in." On an earnings call on Wednesday, CEO Tim Cook said, "We are open to acquisitions of any size... I would confirm that television has intense interest with me and many other people here."
2016-10-20	GS	Morgan Stanley upgraded, Goldman cut at Guggenheim	Guggenheim is going with the hot hand, upgrading Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) to Buy while downgrading Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) to Neutral. Morgan is higher by 3.5% YTD, while Goldman is lower by 3.1%, but the difference is far more stark since the Feb. 11 bottom, with MS up 45% and GS ahead just 18.6%. On Morgan Stanley, Guggenheim analyst Eric Wasserstrom likes the improved revenue mix and asset composition, and says it's likely to benefit the bank's future stress test and CCAR results, allowing greater capital returns. His $39 price target is 18% above yesterday's close. As for Goldman, Wasserstrom takes note of declining M&A volumes following a jump to $4.1T in 2015. He sees volume of just $3.5T this year, and the same for 2017 and 2018. Further, operating leverage has been negative year-to-date, and the stock's valuation has already priced in the bank's expense control initiatives. Both stocks are modestly lower premarket alongside a decline in U.S. stock index futures.
2016-10-18	GS	Expense cuts and capital returns disappoint at Goldman	The stock's higher by 2.1% today after blasting through earnings estimates, but Goldman may have come up shy on a couple of fronts, writes Aaron Back in the WSJ. While ROE for the quarter was a healthy 11.2%, it's just 8.7% YTD vs. the minimum 10% bank investors generally like to see. With revenues still suspect, cutting expenses and returning capital is a way to boost ROE, but over the year's first nine months the ratio of compensation to revenue rose 100 basis points to 41%. Further, Goldman (NYSE:GS) repurchased just $1.3B worth of stock in Q3 - that's less than the previous two quarters, says KBW's Brian Kleinhanzl - and the dividend was held steady at $0.65 vs. expectations for a nickel hike (while most banks give details on capital return plans after getting Fed approval, Goldman does not, leaving investors guessing).
2016-10-18	GS	Goldman beats thanks to big jump in trading revenue	Q3 net income of $2.09B or $4.88 per share up from $2.90 per share one year ago. Annualized ROE of 11.2% during quarter and 8.7% for first nine months this year. Book value per share slipped 2.6% to $181.25. CET1 ratio of 14%. Investment banking revenues of $1.54B about unchanged from a year ago. Financial advisory revenue of $658M down 19%; underwriting revenue of $879M up 18%; equity revenues higher, though industry-wide activity remained low. Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.75B up 17% Y/Y. FICC revenue of $1.96B up 34%, but would have been 49% higher were it not for a DVA gain last year. Equities revenue of $1.78B up 2%. Investing & Lending revenue of $1.40B more than a double from last year. Investment Management revenue of $1.49B up 4% Y/Y. Compensation and benefits expense of $3.21B up 36% Y/Y thanks to the big jump in revenue. Comp and benefits as a percent of revenue of 41% for first nine months of 2016 vs. 40% during same stretch last year. CC at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $1.09, beats on revenue (Oct. 18) GS +1.65% premarket
2016-10-18	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $1.09, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q3 EPS of $4.88 beats by $1.09. Revenue of $8.17B (+19.1% Y/Y) beats by $750M. Shares +1.8% PM. Press Release
2016-10-17	GS	Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open	BLK, CMA, DPZ, GS, GWW, HOG, JNJ, KSU, MTG, OMC, PM, RF, SCL, SNV, TTS, UNH, WWW
2016-10-14	GS	Bloomberg: CBS nears hiring of Goldman, JPMorgan on possible Viacom deal	More firms are set to climb on the CBS-Viacom deal examination train, as the management team at CBS (CBS -0.2%) is close to hiring Goldman Sachs (GS +1.9%) and JPMorgan Chase (JPM -0.3%) to advise it on a possible re-merger, Bloomberg reports. While those banks will advise CEO Les Moonves and the leadership, that's separate from the board's special committee hiring Lazard as it announced last week. CBS could add in other banks as well. Earlier today, the special committee at Viacom (VIA -0.3%, VIAB +0.5%) confirmed it was working with Morgan Stanley as well as Allen & Co. and LionTree to look at the deal. Meanwhile, while Moonves has said he'd want autonomy in running such a combination, Sumner and Shari Redstone (who control the two companies, and have said they don't intend to give up control) reportedly aren't willing to offer Moonves a stake or voting control in National Amusements, the family holding company.
2016-10-14	GS	Banks lead early gains after beats from JPM, C, and WFC	JPMorgan and Citigroup both easily topped estimates thanks to a big rebound in previously-in-the-doldrums markets revenue. JPM is higher by 1%, and Citi by 2%. The read-through is pushing Goldman Sachs (GS +3%), Morgan Stanley (MS +2.7%) and Bank of America (BAC +2.4%) all nicely higher. Less capital-markets focused, Wells Fargo also beat forecasts, but not as soundly. As usual of late, it's lagging its TBTF peers, up just 0.3%. XLF +1.2%, KRE +1.4%, KBE +1.5%. Other individual names: Regions Financial (RF +2.5%), Huntington Bancshares (HBAN +2.1%), KeyCorp (KEY +1.9%), Fifth Third (FITB +1.5%), SunTrust (STI +1.3%), M&T (MTB +1.7%)
2016-10-13	GS	Goldman opens online lender to the public	Be the first on your block to get a loan from Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) as regular Joes today will be able to visit the bank's Marcus.com to borrow up to $30K for things like paying down credit card debt, or that new kitchen. At the start, at least, only those getting a code from Goldman in the mail will be able to apply (the bank says it's sending invitations to millions). Marcus is a big departure for the elite Wall Street bank, but the platform is the centerpiece of Goldman's push into consumer banking (Marcus is named for Goldman founder Marcus Goldman). It's being led by Harit Talwar, who came over from Discover. The timing is notable given the difficulties other online lenders like LendingClub (NYSE:LC) and Prosper have run into. Goldman, however, is also a bank, which gives it access to cheap funding (it began offering retail savings accounts earlier this year and has brought in billions in deposits).
2016-10-5	GS	Financial sector joins energy in leading rally	The continued rise in interest rates - the 10-year yield today breaching 1.70% - is giving additional fuel to the financial sector rally. The XLF's 1.7% advance today puts it in a tie with the energy sector's XLE. The S&P 500 is up just 0.45%. Banks, insurers, and brokers are all sharply ahead as investors envision the return of spread income. Even Wells Fargo (WFC +2.8%) is in the green - it's in fact atop the TBTF movers. Other gainers: Goldman Sachs (GS +2.4%), Morgan Stanley (MS +1.7%), U.S. Bancorp (USB +2.1%), SunTrust (STI +2.5%), PNC Financial (PNC +1.3%), E*Trade (ETFC +2.1%), Voya Financial (VOYA +4.7%), Lincoln National (LNC +2.4%).
2016-10-3	GS	Cabela's on the move as investor group steps in front	A consortium of investors has emerged as the leading bidder for Cabela's (NYSE:CAB), sources tell Reuters. The group includes Bass Pro Shops, the PE arm of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and Capital One Financial (NYSE:COF). Speculation on a Cabela's buyout has gone on for almost a year after the company opened itself up to considering strategic alternatives. CAB +5.59% premarket to $58.00. Shares of the retailer are up 24.5% over the last 52 weeks.
2016-10-3	GS	Cabela's on the move as investor group steps in front	A consortium of investors has emerged as the leading bidder for Cabela's (NYSE:CAB), sources tell Reuters. The group includes Bass Pro Shops, the PE arm of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and Capital One Financial (NYSE:COF). Speculation on a Cabela's buyout has gone on for almost a year after the company opened itself up to considering strategic alternatives. CAB +5.59% premarket to $58.00. Shares of the retailer are up 24.5% over the last 52 weeks.
2016-9-30	GS	Banks lead averages to session highs on Deutsche settlement report	The ADRs of Deutsche Bank are higher by 15% on a report it's near settling U.S. mortgage-related charges for just $5.4B (versus the $14B which had previously been floated). The move has lifted Europe out of the red, led by Germany's (NYSEARCA:EWG) 1% gain. The Dow's (NYSEARCA:DIA) 1% advance is leading the U.S. averages higher. Bank of America (BAC +3.1%), Citigroup (C +3.2%), JPMorgan (JPM +1.7%), Wells Fargo (WFC +0.7%), Goldman Sachs (GS +1.7%), Morgan Stanley (MS +2.9%). XLF +1.5%
2016-9-29	GS	Reuters: Two groups to bid for Cabela's this week	Privately-held Bass Pro Shops is partnering with the private-equity arm of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and they're working on a bid with Capital One (NYSE:COF), which is interested in Cabela's (NYSE:CAB) credit card business, according to Reuters' sources. Then there's P-E outfit Sycamore Partners which is pairing with Synchrony Financial (NYSE:SYF) to make an offer. Binding bids are due this week. Cabela's credit card business is called World's Foremost Bank, and it had nearly 2M accounts, $5B in loans, and $502M in revenue last year. Cabela's closed the session higher by 2.3%, with all of that gain coming in the last few minutes as this report hit the wires.
2016-9-29	GS	Gundlach: 'Stay away' from difficult Deutsche Bank; shares -6.5%	Deutsche Bank's (DB -6.5%) steep tumble has stabilized a bit over the past couple of hours, but DoubleLine bond guru Jeffrey Gundlach says it's got a ways left to go and to stay away. The company is hard to analyze and the prospect of a government bailout, he tells Reuters. The market sell-off "doesn't feel like" it's over by any means. "The market is going to push down Deutsche Bank until there is some recognition of support," he says. Elsewhere in sliding financials today: BAC -1.1%; C -2.1%; JPM -1.4%; GS -2.7%; MS -2.2%; OTCPK:SCGLY -3.8%.
2016-9-29	GS	Stocks add to losses on Deutsche worries	A report that a number of hedge funds are bailing out of their Deutsche Bank exposure has sent that stock sharply lower in the last few minutes, and the move is dragging the big U.S. banks, and in turn, the major averages. Deutsche is now lower by more than 7%. Bank of America (BAC -1.2%), Citigroup (C -1.6%), JPMorgan (JPM -1.2%), Goldman Sachs (GS -2.1%), Morgan Stanley (MS -1.9%). The KBE and KRE are each off 1.1%. The Dow (DIA -0.9%), S&P 500 (SPY -0.8%), and Nasdaq (QQQ -0.6%).
2016-9-28	GS	Latest stress test changes bad news for TBTFs, good news for smaller players	"Large banks are going to be forced to take on more capital," says Dick Bove. "It will make the cost of funding more, not less, expensive. It will reduce the appeal for investors to put money at risk in the banking system." Bove is commenting on a weekend announcement from Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo promising future stress tests will be geared to demanding even higher cash buffers for banks. Set to take effect next year, the new rule could raise capital requirements for the largest banks by 3 or 4 percentage points, writes Jeff Cox at CNBC. Interested parties: BAC, C, WFC, JPM, GS, MS There's good news though, as those lenders with less than $250B in assets won't be subject to the same standards. FBR's Edward Mills calls it a "significant positive" for regionals, which now have more certainly on the process, reduced regulatory expenses, and thus the ability to return more capital to owners. Interested parties: RF, ZION, CMA, KEY, FITB, STI, NYCB, HBAN, PNC, BBT, MTB ETFs: KRE, KBE, IAT, KBWB, QABA, KBWR, KRU, PSCF, KRS, WDRW, DPST
2016-9-27	GS	Reuters: Goldman's top Southeast Asia banker to exit	Based in Singapore, Michael Smith is the head of Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) investment banking division in Southeast Asia, and has been with the bank since 2006. He's expected to depart later this year, according to the report. Smith's expected exit is not part of the downsizing of Goldman's Asian team in which it's been reported the bank will be cutting nearly 30% of its 300 investment banking jobs in the region.
2016-9-23	GS	Reuters: Goldman cutting 30% of Asia (ex-Japan) IB jobs	In an acknowledgement of the major slowdown in activity in the region, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is cutting nearly 30% of its 300 investment banking jobs in ex-Japan Asia, reports Reuters. Most of the cuts will take place in Hong Kong, Singapore, and China, where the bank's main Asian offices are located. The total value of M&A deals in Asia-Pacific this year of $572.9B is down from $745.7B during the same period in 2015.
2016-9-23	GS	Fed moves forward with bank commodity restrictions	The proposed rule would make it more difficult for banks to be involved with physical commodities by raising capital requirements. Further, banks would be prohibited from activities involving power plants, and owning or storing copper. The Fed today begins a 90-day period of accepting public comment. Banks like Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) have relied on grandfather clauses to engage in physical commodity businesses not allowed for other lenders, while Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) remain somewhat involved in commodity trading and energy tolling activities. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, IYG, FNCL, SEF, FXO, RYF, FINU, RWW, XLFS, FINZ, JHMF, FAZZ, FNCF
2016-9-20	GS	Goldman off to fast start in ETF race; JPMorgan the tortoise	Since Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) began offering ETFs one year ago, it's already brought in $2.4B of assets, making their funds among the most successful product launches in ETF history. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) - which entered the ETF business two years ago - has garnered just over $800M, despite the earlier start and more successful performance record. "Goldman did quite a bit of work priming the pump, pre-vetting its strategies with institutional clients," says Morningstar's Ben Johnson. "This is a marathon, not a sprint," says JPMorgan's ETF boss Bob Deutsch. Helping Goldman are low prices - its flagship fund, the Active Beta U.S. Large Cap Equity ETF, charges just nine basis points. Then there's the Goldman name: "They have a real panache if you are some RIA in Iowa who has never had a relationship with Goldman at all,” says FactSet's David Nadig, who imagines said RIA going to clients and saying, "We can now get access to Goldman’s quant expertise for the same price as most of the index funds we look at at Vanguard." Source: Bloomberg
2016-9-13	GS	Goldman uses retail deposits for Wall Street profits	Building its U.S. consumer bank, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has established a team to put its deposits to work on Wall Street, sources told Reuters. The existence of the team, which has not been previously reported, was set up in mid-2015 and is formally known as the institutional lending group. Lately, it has ramped up activities as Goldman looks to do more lending broadly.
2016-9-12	GS	Goldman adds to ETF lineup	The Goldman Sachs Treasury Access 0-1 Year ETF (GBIL) began trading last week with $20M in AUM. The cost for the "ultrashort" duration ETF is 0.14%. The bank launched its first ETFs about a year ago, but this is its first fixed-income offering.
2016-9-8	GS	Fed wants to ban banks from buying company stakes	Part of the Dodd-Frank law requires regulators to submit fixes to potential risks not covered by the post-crisis rules aimed at cutting bank certain trading and investments. As part of the Fed's contribution, it is recommending Congress repeal banks' merchant banking powers, and their ability to operate in the physical commodities business. The OCC and FDIC are yet to be heard from. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) could have most to lose as that company booked $1.2B in revenue in H1 in the division housing its merchant banking business.
2016-9-7	GS	Goldman partners banned from donating to Trump	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has banned its high-ranking employees from contributing money to certain campaigns including that of U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump, according to a report in Politico. The policy change is meant to "prevent inadvertently violating pay-to-play rules," but don't prohibit top brass from donating to the Clinton ticket. A spokesman emphasized that the impact on the presidential election is entirely coincidental.
2016-9-1	GS	WSJ: Banks mull legal challenge to stress tests	The Fed stress tests are the centerpiece of post-crisis bank regulatory reform, and that the banks would even consider challenging a bureaucracy that's not in the habit of being challenged is a shocker. The WSJ, however, reports bank trade groups and industry advisers are debating just that, but say talks are still in an early stage. Fans of Dodd-Frank will naturally argue the stress tests have made the banks far safer, but at what expense to investors? A main area of contention is the opacity of the tests, says the report, as well as the ability of regulators to block returns for subjective reasons (such as challenging them?). Perhaps lenders are feeling their oats following MetLife's successful challenge of its SIFI designation. If the insurer can take on Uncle Sam and win, why not the banks? Interested parties are too numerous to name, but include: Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Citigroup (NYSE:C), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM). ETFs: KBE, KRE
2016-9-1	GS	U.S. banks log most profitable quarter ever	Despite an increasing regulatory burden and lackluster share performance, the U.S. banking industry just logged its most profitable quarter ever, according to figures from SNL Financial and S&P Global Market Intelligence. Earnings for the three-month period totaled $43.6B, compared to the $43.01B in Q2 of 2015, a 1.4% beat. On a sequential basis, the April-to-June period topped the previous quarter by $4.56B, an 11.7% rise. Related tickers: JPM, C, BAC, WFC, GS, MS, USB, BK, STT, PNC, COF
2016-8-31	GS	Goldman sticking with fixed-income trading, but with fewer humans	Unlike a number of other big banks which have announced big cuts in their fxied-income units, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has remained firm in its commitment to the slowing debt-trading business. But, write Lisa Abramowicz and Lionel Laurent, this doesn't necessarily mean a commitment to the number of people in the operation. The bank, they say, is busily preparing a future in which machines will handle much of the work. While electronic trading in corporate bonds isn't yet too big of a deal, it's market share has nearly doubled in two years. One example of how Goldman is responding is the "Goldman Sachs Algorithm," which allows investors to trade U.S. corporate bonds without having to communicate with a human. The leader in this field is MarketAxess (NASDAQ:MKTX), and it's price chart resembles a rocket ship launch.
2016-8-30	GS	Goldman Sachs goes ex-dividend today	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) had declared $0.65/share quarterly dividend, in line with previous. Payable Sept. 29; for shareholders of record Sept. 1; ex-div Aug. 30.
2016-8-30	GS	Barroso's Goldman job results in petition protest	More than 76,000 people have signed a petition demanding former European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso be stripped of his pension after taking a job at Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). Organizers plan to present it to current leaders of the EU institutions at the end of September. Critics claim the role is inappropriate given Goldman's role in the U.S. subprime crisis and Greek debt talks.
2016-8-17	GS	Goldman P-E arm looking to cash out of insurance investment	The bank's Private Equity Group bought into legacy-to-live carrier Enstar in April 2011 with a $291M investment. That 19% stake could be worth in the area of $600M today, and Goldman (NYSE:GS) has begun to approach potential buyers, according to The Insurance Insider.
2016-8-12	GS	Banks ask for more time to comply with Volcker rule	Big Wall Street banks, including Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM), have asked the Federal Reserve to grant them an additional five-year grace period to comply with the Volcker rule, according to Reuters. If granted, the extension would see the changes not kick in until 2022. The Fed also said the lenders must specify the investments they are referring to, before it makes a decision.
2016-8-10	GS	Report: Banker bonus cuts not as deep as feared	Incentive pay for fixed-income sales and trading may fall 10-15% this year, according to Johnson Associates. Three months ago, the firm forecast a 15-20% decline. Bankers involved in corporate M&A may see bonus pay fall just 5-15% vs. an earlier expectation for 10-15%. Source: Bloomberg's Laura Keller The Brexit vote, notes Alan Johnson, may not erode H2 revenue as much as previously thought. It's a little bit of good news for an industry still having to deal with sluggish revenue. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) slashed first-half compensation by the most in at least four years, according to the most recent filings. At Goldman, the average H1 compensation fell 29% to $168.65K.
2016-8-8	GS	Goldman, Credit Suisse dine on Turkish burgers	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS) and the European Bank for Reconstruction & Development have invested $150M in TFI TAB Gida, the Turkish company that controls the biggest international Burger King franchise. The trio of investors may also be involved in an IPO in the next couple of years, although their current funding will be invested in new restaurants.
2016-8-5	GS	More Brexit, 1MDB troubles at Goldman	In a new regulatory filing, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) warned that Brexit could force it to "restructure" some of its U.K. operations, in one of the clearest signs that Wall Street institutions are preparing specific measures following the landmark vote. New York state's financial regulator has also sent Goldman a second request for information about its fundraising for Malaysian state fund 1MDB and requested a meeting with the bank by the end of the month.
2016-8-3	GS	Goldman fined by Fed over use of confidential information	Under pressure to drum up more business, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) investment banker Joseph Jiampietro used confidential information from Rohit Bansal - a Fed employee who later was hired by Goldman - to bring in clients, according to the charges. The offenses occurred between Feb. 2012 and Oct. 2014, and Goldman is paying $36.3M to settle. Both Jiampietro and Bansal were fired some time ago. In a statement Goldman places the blame squarely on those two workers, but the Fed goes further, saying Goldman did not have sufficient policies, procedures and training in place to ensure compliance with laws.
2016-8-1	GS	U.S. subpoenas Goldman in 1MDB probe	U.S. authorities have issued subpoenas to Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) for documents related to 1MDB, the Malaysian investment fund at the center of an international corruption scandal, WSJ reports. Goldman received the orders earlier this year from the DOJ and SEC, which also want to interview current and former Goldman employees in connection with the inquiries.
2016-7-27	GS	Oppenheimer: Bank stock hatred hits new highs	Having covered bank stocks on and off since 1985, the team at Oppenheimer says portfolio managers have never been fans of the sector, but the hatred today is off the charts - even as the reasons for that hatred have gone away. Banks used to be opaque, they overpaid for acquisitions, and often had frothy growth that almost invariably backfired. It's hard to say that today. While banks will always be somewhat opaque, today they're returning capital rather than blowing it on acquisitions, and their "growth initiatives are the epitome of financial probity." Oppenheimer's six large bank composite has on average churned out quarterly pretax earnings of $31.4B per quarter since 2013 (including $30.5B in Q1 this year, and $33.4B in Q2). That's a lot of money, especially since most of it is being used to buy back stock at less than 10x earnings and below tangible book value. While lower-for-longer interest rates will continue to hamper earnings, banks are managing appropriately for the current environment, and the math of buying back stock below book will eventually win the day. Favorite picks are Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). ETFs: KBE, KRE
2016-7-26	GS	Suits begin for Goldman over 1MDB	Private equity firm Primus Pacific Partners is the largest shareholder of Malaysian bank EON Capital. It's suing Goldman Sachs (GS +0.2%) for $510M, alleging fraud and breach of fiduciary duty, claiming a conflict of interest with Malaysia PM Najib Razak when it was advising EON. Goldman, of course, was an advisor to 1MDB, the now-scandalized development fund established by the prime minister. At the same time, the bank was advising EON, which was mulling a takeover bid by Hong Leong Bank - which allegedly has close ties to the PM's brother. Previously: Goldman probed over Malaysia fund 1MDB (June 7) Previously: Goldman's Malaysia business evaporates (May 25)
2016-7-25	GS	Fed readies new enforcement action against Goldman in leak case	In a bit of a surprise, the Fed is readying new enforcement actions against Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) tied to an information leak between one of its New York employees and a Goldman banker two years ago, The New York Times reports. Goldman is expected to pay a new penalty to settle this; it paid $50M to New York State two years ago due to ineffective supervision of the banker. The new actions may include a third man, a former Goldman exec who reportedly plans to fight back if the Fed files a case against him. A new penalty would come from the Fed in Washington, D.C., rather than in New York, and may be smaller than the $50M penalty from the previous action on this case. After hours: GS -0.2%.
2016-7-22	GS	Goldman raising billions for new private equity fund	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) will soon begin promoting a new corporate-buyout fund of between $5B-$8B, according to the WSJ, marking the first time it's launched such a fund since 2007. The new pool is named West Street Capital Partners, after Goldman's lower Manhattan address, in order to comply with a post-crisis rule that prevents P-E funds from bearing their parent bank's name.
2016-7-21	GS	WSJ: Post-crisis Goldman raising new buyout fund of $5B-$8B	For the first time since the global financial crisis, Goldman Sachs (GS -1.1%) is jumping heavily back into corporate-buyout funding. The bank is raising a private-equity fund of $5B-$8B, its first of that type since 2008, The Wall Street Journal reports. It's smaller than the $20B fund it raised in 2007 -- and in accordance with new rules, it will have less Goldman capital and even less of its name (it will be called West Street Capital Partners). In an effort to cut big-bank betting, the Dodd-Frank financial law's "Volcker Rule" says that banks can contribute no more than 3% of the money raised by P-E or hedge funds, and that sum can't be more than 3% of the bank's capital. Overall, Goldman's private-equity arm oversees $65B in assets.
2016-7-20	GS	Investment banks slash pay	Alongside falling profits at Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), the trio collectively cut employee pay in Q1 and Q2 by 17% to $19B, according to a Bloomberg review of regulatory filings. It's a big change from a year ago when the three boosted H1 compensation by 4%. Goldman cut the most, setting aside 28% less to $5.99B. Morgan Stanley trimmed 14% to $7.7B, and JPMorgan 6% to $5.3B. Citigroup and Bank of America don't break out compensation for the IB units. Source: Laura Keller at Bloomberg
2016-7-19	GS	Investors not yet buying Goldman beat	FICC revenue up 20% was a bright spot, but business in other units was sluggish, notably in investment banking, where revenue fell 11%, in part thanks to a slump in M&A business, but mostly due to a major drop in IPO business - equity issuance dropped 55%. Both Nomura's Steven Chubak and Citi's Keith Horowitz remind Goldman has already had a nice run on the back of the post-Brexit bounce and earlier earnings reports from JPMorgan, Citi, and Bank of America (Goldman's ahead 10% in July), so perhaps today's pause shouldn't be a surprise. Speaking on the earnings call, CFO Harvey Schwartz says client volume levels were down headed into Brexit, but hit peak activity following the shock vote. He doesn't expect Brexit to be a headwind to the bank's business. WSJ blog GS -0.5% Previously: Trading revenue bounces back at Goldman, but conditions remain challenging (July 19)
2016-7-19	GS	Trading revenue bounces back at Goldman, but conditions remain challenging	Q2 net earnings of $1.82B or $3.72 per share vs. $1.98 one year ago. It's a sizable beat from $3.00 expected for this quarter, but revenues fell 12.6% on a Y/Y basis. ROE of 8.7% in Q2 and 7.5% in H1. Investment Banking revenues of $1.79B fell 11% Y/Y. Financial advisory revenue of $794M down 3% as M&A slowed down. Underwriting revenue of $993M down 17% from a strong quarter one year ago, reflecting a big decline in industry-wide activity, though debt underwriting rose smartly. Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.68B up 2% Y/Y. FICC revenue of $1.93B up 20% - while conditions improved vs. three months ago, the environment remains challenging, says the bank. Compensation and Benefits of $3.33B down 13% Y/Y. The ratio of comp and benefits to revenue of 42% for H1 of 2016 is flat from the year-ago period. Total staff fell 5% in Q2. Tangible book value per share of $166.90 up 2% for the quarter. CC at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $0.72, beats on revenue (July 19) GS is bouncing around in premarket action, but currently marginally higher.
2016-7-19	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $0.72, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q2 EPS of $3.72 beats by $0.72. Revenue of $7.93B (-12.6% Y/Y) beats by $350M. Shares -0.51% PM. Press Release
2016-7-19	GS	Wall Street on edge as GOP backs Glass-Steagall	The Republican convention has left Wall Street banks on edge by embracing a proposal to reinstate Glass-Steagall, the banking separation rule which was dropped during the Clinton administration after a bipartisan effort to overturn it. The repeal is often cited as a cause of the financial crisis in 2008, even though two of the institutions at the core of the crisis, Lehman and Bear Stearns, were unaffected by the act's prohibition of combining investment and commercial banks. Related tickers: C, JPM, BAC, WFC, GS
2016-7-18	GS	Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open	AMTD, BDC, CMA, ERIC, GPC, GS, GWW, JNJ, KSU, LMT, MTG, NEOG, NVS, PLD, PM, RF, SNV, TTS, UNH, WIT
2016-7-15	GS	These S&P 500 stocks have the most upside/downside vs. consensus - Wells Fargo	Wells Fargo ticks off 20 S&P 500 stocks with the most upside potential vs. consensus, and the 20 with the most downside risk vs. consensus. The list is compiled by comparing the midpoint of Wells Fargo Securities valuation ranges to consensus fair value estimates, volatility adjusting the percentage difference, and ranking the resulting score. Upside: AEE, BEN, CCL, DVA, EIX, ES, EXC, FTR, HUM, INTC, JNJ, LNT, PEG, PNW, SCG, T, WEC, WU, XEL, XOM. Downside: ANTM, C, CI, COF, EQT, FOXA, FSLR, GS, KIM, LH, MON, MSI, MYL, NVDA, NWSA, SLG, TIF, TSO, UA, WLTW.
2016-7-15	GS	Goldman-backed fund loses 10% on Brexit	Pelham Capital’s main hedge fund lost about 10% in June as the U.K.’s shock decision to exit the EU sparked turmoil in global equity markets, sources say. The losses in Pelham Long/Short Fund, which managed 3.8 billion euros ($4.2B) at the end of May, left it down about 9% in the first half of the year. The fund, one of the largest in Europe betting on rising and falling share values, had gained about 15% last year. Source: Bloomberg
2016-7-14	GS	Big banks set up for good day following JPMorgan beat	Among the items boosting the quarter was a big rebound in markets revenue (which includes FICC) - up 23% Y/Y to $5.56B. The bank had previously unofficially guided to more than a 10% gain in trading revenue. Jamie Dimon has previously said that the myriad legal and regulatory issues pressuring the bank were beginning to dissipate, and this quarter JPMorgan reported a legal benefit of $430M vs. $291M of expenses a year ago. Energy? JPMorgan's Corporate  &  Investment bank booked a $235M credit loss vs. $50M a year ago, though $185M of that loss came from one customer. The commercial bank had a reserve release of $25M vs. needing to add $304M in Q1. Citigroup (NYSE:C) +2.6%, Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) +2.1%, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) +2.25%, Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) +1.8%, Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) +1.4% premarket
2016-7-11	GS	Goldman and Morgan Stanley to top estimates - Credit Suisse	A rebound in credit markets and elevated trading activity ahead of the Brexit vote are likely to both filter down to solid sequential revenue growth and profits for Morgan Stanley (MS +0.5%) and Goldman Sachs (GS +1.3%), says Credit Suisse. Both stocks are down more than 15% YTD, but Goldman could rally 20% from here, says the analyst team, noting Q2 was the best quarter for credit market asset prices since 2009.
2016-7-8	GS	Former EC chief Barroso joins Goldman Sachs as non-executive chairman	Jose Manuel Barroso, the former president of the European Commission, has joined Goldman Sachs (GS +2.1%) as non-executive chairman for its international business. Barroso, the former prime minister of Portugal, served at the helm of the EC from 2004 to 2014. He'll act as an adviser to the wider group as well. "Jose Manuel brings immense insights and experience to Goldman Sachs, including a deep understanding of Europe," says a statement from Michael Sherwood and Richard Gnodde, co-chiefs of the company's international business.
2016-6-30	GS	JMP mulls CCAR results from Morgan Stanley and Goldman	While a "no objection" clearly would have been preferable for Morgan Stanley (MS +2.5%), says the team at JMP, $3.5B of buybacks is 41% more than last year and ahead of consensus expectations for $2.8B; the quarterly dividend of $0.20 is up by one-third. Together, they represent 87% of GAAP net income, and the bank has no boosted capital returns for four consecutive years. "We are encouraged that it continues to take steps forward as we view CCAR as a long-term process toward reaching optimal capital return." Goldman Sachs (GS +1.9%) historically does not disclose how much it's approved for, and this year is no different. The team isn't 100% certain progress was made, but Goldman did say it was approved for a hike in the dividend, and back-of-the-envelope calculations would lead one to believe the buyback was increased as well. They're estimating a total of about $6B in capital returns.
2016-6-30	GS	Big banks show little reaction to capital plans	Dividend increases and boosted buybacks must already have been priced into the shares of the big banks, as share prices are showing little reaction to last night's capital plans. Citigroup (C -0.6%) is notably lower despite announcing more than a tripling in the dividend. Bank of America (BAC -0.8%) was more cautious with its payout boost, but is faring about the same. JPMorgan (JPM unch) chose not to lift its dividend, but did raise the buyback. Morgan Stanley (MS +0.6%) lifted both. Wells Fargo (WFC -0.5%) didn't give details other than saying its capital plan was approved; same for Goldman Sachs (GS +0.1%). ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, IYG, FNCL, SEF, FXO, RYF, FINU, RWW, XLFS, FINZ, JHMF, FAZZ, FNCF, KBE
2016-6-27	GS	Bank shares see more Brexit fallout	Banks across the globe are taking another serious beating post-Brexit. The sector is getting battered on fears that fragile recoveries at many financial institutions will be delayed and that volatile markets could claim scalps. Several sources have also revealed that Italy is considering a €40B capital infusion into its banks. Banking stocks premarket: BCS -21%, RBS -15%, LYG -17%, DB -9%, UBS -6%, HSBC -5%, C -2%, MS -2%, BAC -2%, JPM -1%, WFC -1%, GS -1%. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, KRE, UYG, VFH, KBE, IYF, BTO, IAT, IYG, SEF, FNCL, FXO, KBWB, QABA, RYF, FINU, KBWR, KRU, RWW, FINZ, KRS, XLFS
2016-6-24	GS	Goldman's Blankfein: We respect this outcome	"Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has a long history of adapting to change, and we will work with the relevant authorities as the terms of the exit become clear," says CEO Lloyd Blankfein in an internal memo following the Brexit vote. He reminds there will be no immediate change as negotiations between the U.K. and the EU on terms of their divorce could take years. Goldman has about 6K employees based in London. Shares -5.8% premarket
2016-6-24	GS	Brexit vote hammers bank shares	Banks across the globe are taking a serious beating post-Brexit. Much of the regulations that govern the financial services industry and allow for cross-border transactions are at the EU level, meaning regulatory changes will need to be negotiated and altered from their current financial infrastructure. Banking stocks premarket: BCS -25%, RBS -24%, LYG -27%, HSBC -10%, DB -16%, UBS -10%, C -7.5%, BAC -7%, JPM -6%, WFC -5%, GS -5%, MS -5%. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, KRE, UYG, VFH, KBE, IYF, BTO, IAT, IYG, SEF, FNCL, FXO, KBWB, QABA, RYF, FINU, KBWR, KRU, RWW, FINZ, KRS, XLFS
2016-6-23	GS	All pass stress tests - how did your bank fare?	Ally Financial (NYSE:ALLY): Actual end of 2015 CET1 ratio of 9.2%, Q1 2018 CET1 ratio under severely adverse scenario of 6.1%, minimum 6.1%. American Express (NYSE:AXP): Actual 12.4%, Q1 2018 12.3%, minimum 11.4%. Bank of America (NYSE:BAC): Actual 11.6%, Q1 2018 8.1%, minimum 8.1%. BNY Mellon (NYSE:BK): Actual 11.5%, Q1 2018 11.2%; minimum 10.5%. BB&T (NYSE:BBT): 10.3%, 6.9%, 6.9% BBVA Compass (NYSE:BBVA): 10.7%, 6.5%, 6.5%. BMO Financial (NYSE:BMO): 11.9%, 5.9%, 5.9%. Capital One (NYSE:COF): 11.1%, 8.2%, 8.2%. Citigroup (NYSE:C): 15.3%, 9.2%, 9.2%. Citizens Financial (NYSE:CFG): 11.7%, 8.8%, 8.8%. Comerica (NYSE:CMA): 10.5%, 8.3%, 8.3%. Discover (NYSE:DFS): 13.9%, 12.4%, 11.9%. Fifth Third (NASDAQ:FITB): 9.8%, 6.8%, 6.8%. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): 13.6%, 10.2%, 8.4%. HSBC N.A. (NYSE:HSBC): 15.7%, 9.1%, 9.1%. Huntington Bancshares (NASDAQ:HBAN): 9.8%, 5%, 5%. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM): 12%, 8.3%, 8.3%. KeyCorp (NYSE:KEY): 10.9%, 6.4%, 6.4%. M&T (NYSE:MTB): 11.1%, 6.9%, 6.9%. Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS): 16.4%, 10%, 9.1%. Northern Trust (NASDAQ:NTRS): 10.8%, 9.6%, 9.6%. PNC Financial (NYSE:PNC): 10.6%, 7.6%, 7.6%. Regions (NYSE:RF): 10.9%, 7.3%, 7.3%. Santander Holdings (NYSE:SAN): 12%, 11.8%, 11.8% State Street (NYSE:STT): 13%, 9.6%, 9.6% SunTrust (NYSE:STI): 10%, 7.5%, 7.5%. TD Group (NYSE:TD): 13.1%, 8.4%, 8.4%. U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB): 9.6%, 7.5%, 7.5%. Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC): 11.1%, 7.2%, 7.2%. Zions (NASDAQ:ZION): 12.2%, 6.6%, 6.6%. Previously: All 33 banks pass this year's stress tests (June 23)
2016-6-23	GS	Goldman scraps undergrad on-campus interviews	Hoping to remove bias from the process, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) plans to end the age-old ritual of on-campus interviews for undergraduates. It's part of a broader overhaul as the bank looks to standardize its recruitment process. Also at work is an effort to broaden the pool of applicants beyond those who were in the right frat or happened to play lacrosse or field hockey at certain schools (CFO Harvey Schwartz is a Rutgers grad, and President Gary Cohn went to American U). Goldman is also experimenting with a personality test, and trying to reach candidates through social media. A recent Snapchat (Private:CHAT) campaign was successful, according to Mike Desmarais, global head of recruiting.
2016-6-21	GS	Banks mull strong Jefferies trading results	Jefferies' fiscal quarters end one month ahead of those for JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), so investors in those banks like to keep an eye out in order to get a preview. What they'll get from Jefferies' FQ2 is that fixed-income trading has experienced a sharp reversal to the upside after a lame Q1. Bond-trading revenue at Jefferies was up 55%, the largest quarterly gain since 2014, and the best Mar-May quarter since 2012. Wall Street executives for a few weeks have touted a Q2 trading rebound, and the news from Jefferies backs that up. On the downside, stock and bond underwriting income continued to slump.
2016-6-16	GS	Goldman and JPMorgan have most to lose on Brexit - KBW	Increasing costs and weaker capital markets activity are a bad combination, but they're coming should the U.K. vote to exit the EU, says KBW's Brian Kleinhanzl, expecting a two-year transition period with those headwinds. Longer-term, though, Brexit should be a wash for the U.S. universal banks. As for the shorter-term, banks would need to have presence in both the U.K. and EU - the transition should be a manageable expense, but the run-rate costs would remain. Kleinhanzl sees JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) as most exposed to the fallout thanks to the relatively large amount of income each generates from U.K. units. Citigroup and the custodial banks - BNY Mellon (NYSE:BK), State Street (NYSE:STT), Northern Trust (NASDAQ:NTRS) - should be less impacted since operations in the U.K. are smaller relative to the overall companies.
2016-6-13	GS	Morgan Stanley scores with LinkedIn deal	As the advisor to Microsoft on its $26B LinkedIn purchase, Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) could reap $10M-$20M. More importantly if not for business than at least for conversations on the golf course this summer, it pushes the bank past Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) as #1 in technology, media, and telecommunications M&A this year. It's maybe not surprising seeing Goldman left out of the deal given its work with then-CEO Steve Ballmer on Microsoft's 2014 purchase of Nokia Oyj's phone business - a deal then opposed by current CEO Satya Nadella. Microsoft has since written off nearly all of that acquisition. Should Microsoft raise somewhere in the area of $15B to complete the purchase, underwriters could earn another $40M-$60M in fees.
2016-6-13	GS	Libya fund, Goldman square off in London	The Libyan Investment Authority, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, will go head-to-head with Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) in a London court today in a dispute over $1.2B in derivative transactions it purchased in 2008. In its lawsuit, the $67B Libyan fund claims that the dealings were rendered worthless during the financial crisis, but Goldman still earned $350M in profit on the trades.
2016-6-9	GS	Stress tests results coming this month	The Dodd Frank stress test (DFAST) results are due on June 23 and the Comprehensive Capital Analysis (CCAR) on June 29. Noting a severely adverse scenario even more rigorous than in the past, Morningstar's Dan Werner says it will be hard to read anything negative into a bank's passing the test. Barclay's Jason Goldberg points out Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) as two poised to thrive if the government were to allow them to draw down capital, but "when" is the big question as next year's tests are expected to be even harder. The two are trading at about 1x book and sport ROEs of roughly 10% - both gauges were about twice those amounts prior to the financial crisis. JPMorgan's Kian Abouhossein expects Citizens Financial (NYSE:CFG), Citigroup (NYSE:C), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), and SunTrust (NYSE:STI) to have outsized increases in capital return this year, driven mostly by buybacks. One wild card: This year's tests requires banks to model for negative interest rates.
2016-6-9	GS	IPO values Dong Energy at $15B	Ding-dong! The IPO market isn't dead, as Dong Energy prepares to launch Europe's biggest offering so far this year, listing its stock on Nasdaq OMX in Copenhagen. The world's largest offshore wind energy operator has sold 17.4% of its shares to raise 17.1B kroner ($2.6B), giving the company a market value of 98.2B kroner ($15B). Along with the Danish government, which holds over 50% of Dong, a Goldman-controlled (NYSE:GS) entity owns 14.7%, although that stake has been subject to heated controversy.
2016-6-7	GS	Goldman probed over Malaysia fund 1MDB	U.S. investigators are trying to determine whether Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) violated the Bank Secrecy Act when it didn't sound an alarm over a suspicious transaction involving Malaysia's state fund 1MDB. After raising $3B via a bond issue for the troubled fund, Goldman sent the proceeds to a Swiss bank account controlled by 1MDB, with half of the money disappearing offshore within days and some reappearing in the prime minister's bank account.
2016-6-6	GS	Goldman attracts 250K student job applications	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) received more than a quarter of a million applications from students and graduates for jobs this summer, a rising number that is way more than the bank could ever employ. The trend is mirrored at several other large banks such as JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), BofA (NYSE:BAC) and Citigroup (NYSE:C). According to figures provided to the Financial Times, the number of these applications has risen more than 40% globally since 2012.
2016-6-2	GS	Bank capital requirements to get tougher	In separate public comments today, Fed governors Daniel Tarullo and Jerome Powell said the Fed will require the eight largest U.S. banks to hold even more capital if they want to pass stress tests. The goal, says Powell, is to make capital requirements so difficult that the largest lenders have to honestly assess whether it would be a better idea to break themselves up. For now, the Fed is going to make 2015's capital surcharges permanent, which alone makes things tougher. "Really quite significant, probably the most significant additional potential capital requirement on the horizon." says former OCC Director John Dugan. The eight: Bank of America (BAC -0.1%), Citigroup (C -0.3%), JPMorgan (JPM -0.4%), Morgan Stanley (MS -0.7%), Wells Fargo (WFC -0.5%), State Street (STT -0.7%), Goldman Sachs (GS -0.7%), BNY Mellon (BK -0.5%)
2016-6-1	GS	Goldman cutting investment banking jobs	Goldman Sachs (GS +0.2%) eliminated dozens of managing directors, executive directors, and VPs across its mergers and debt and equity capital markets teams in the past few weeks, reports Bloomberg. These cuts are in addition to the bank's annual cull of 5% of its employees thought to be underperformers. They're also in addition to cuts in the trading operation after Q1 profit in that division fell 60% from a year ago. The M&A cuts are of interest as they come following a booming 2015, but with global activity off more than 80% this year. Earlier this week, President Gary Cohn said the same factors fueling mergers in 2015 are at work this year.
2016-5-31	GS	Goldman's Cohn: M&A outlook still strong	A low-growth environment with financing both cheap and plentiful makes for conditions which should continue to be conducive to robust M&A activity, says Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) President Gary Cohn, speaking at a conference. Just $300B of deals were announced in Q1, the slowest pace since Q1 of 2014. This came, however, alongside a big swoon in markets in the year's first six weeks. As for the swooning trading business (revenue fell 37% Y/Y in Q1), Cohn is optimistic, particularly as competitors pull back faster than Goldman is doing.
2016-5-31	GS	Goldman makes $75M loan to IPO hopeful	Usually tech companies in IPO registration don't go looking for financing, but with the IPO market at a near-standstill, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) - already an equity investor and lead advisor to software company Nutanix - is now a debt holder after lending it $75M on favorable (for Goldman) terms. The senior notes guarantee the bank will earn at least a 9% return. Nutanix has said it will repay the loan when it does go public. The sooner the IPO, the better the annualized return. If for whatever reason, Nutanix doesn't go public, the three-year paper carries a 10% annual interest rate. Nutanix was valued at $2B in 2014.
2016-5-25	GS	Goldman's Malaysia business evaporates	Absent last last year from a group asked to pitch Malaysia's largest sovereign wealth fund on a $750M bond sale was Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). At issue is the bank's involvement with another government entity, 1Malaysia Development Bank, and its now ex-star banker Tim Leissner, who drew in a number of Malaysian clients and helped oversee three bond offerings for 1MDB in 2012 and 2013. Leissner has't been accused of wrongdoing, but 1MDB has, and Goldman has retained an outside law firm to conduct an internal probe of its role with the fund. Goldman keeps its chin up: "Malaysian deal activity has been generally quiet but our dialogue with clients is positive and we are seeing a growing pipeline of transactions," says a spokesman.
2016-5-24	GS	Goldman reportedly raising money to invest in P-E firms	Goldman Sach's (GS +1.4%) asset management unit - looking to expand access to alternative strategies for its wealthy clients - is raising money to take stakes in mid-sized and larger private-equity firms, reports Bloomberg. Initial purchases will be made through the bank's Petershill II fund, which raised about $1.5B, and has mostly taken stakes in companies managing hedge funds. For Goldman, stakes in P-E funds bring a steady stream of management fees. For the target P-E funds, Goldman can help them lure big-fish institutional clients.
2016-5-20	GS	Goldman's Blankfein sees improving economy	"We see the same things they must be seeing," Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) CEO Lloyd Blankfein tells investors at the annual meeting. He's referring to the Fed, which turned from somewhat cautious on the economy to far more bullish in the past couple of weeks. Of note, Goldman returned to Jersey City after a few years of taking its annual meeting on the road to California, Utah, and Texas as it looked to showcase growth and operations in areas outside of New York.
2016-5-18	GS	New pay rules could give asset managers a leg up over banks	Sweeping new compensation rules released by six federal agencies last month would free up pay restrictions for the BlackRock's (NYSE:BLK) of the world, while tightening them for banks like JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). Source: Bloomberg The result is likely an even stronger flow of talent exodus from the big banks and to outfits like BlackRock, Vanguard, Pimco, and Fidelity, to name four. “They keep making it more difficult to be a big bank,” says a D.C. attorney. At those lenders with more than $250B in assets, top management would have 60% of their bonuses deferred for four years. Tough, but even tougher are clawback provisions allowing banks to take back money up to seven years after bonuses vest. Though mammoth in size, the overwhelming majority of assets at BlackRock and the like are client, not proprietary assets. Thus, they aren't subject to the same restrictions. Franklin Resources (NYSE:BEN), for instance, has $743B in AUM, but only about $16B of its own assets. Blackstone (NYSE:BX) manages $344B, but only $22B of its own money.
2016-5-18	GS	Goldman Sachs Asset Management mulls exit from Australia	Goldman Sachs Asset Management (NYSE:GS) is conducting a strategic review of its Australian equities and fixed-income businesses, reports Reuters, though it has not yet made a final decision on a sale. The operation oversees just A$9B, making it a pretty small player in absolute terms, and in Oz's $2.6T wealth management industry. Goldman last year sold its Indian fund management unit for $37.5M, but while the bank unloaded everything in India, it may keep its institutional business in Australia.
2016-5-15	GS	Goldman emerges as major natural gas player	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has quietly overtaken Chevron and ExxonMobil to become one of the biggest natural gas merchants in North America, expanding in physical commodities trading even as other banks pull back, FT reports. The Wall Street institution last year bought and sold 1.2T cubic feet of physical gas in the U.S. - equal to a quarter of the country's residential consumption and more than twice its volumes in 2013. According to Natural Gas Intelligence, Goldman is now the seventh-largest gas marketer in North America.
2016-5-12	GS	JPMorgan keeps risk appetite as rivals pull back	Value-at-risk at JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) jumped 50% amid Q1's volatility, reports Bloomberg. It's a figure standing in sharp contrast to declines of 25% or more at Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Deutshce Bank (NYSE:DB), and smaller falls at UBS, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS). For Bank of America, it says the risk in its trading portfolio in Q1 was the lowest in any quarter since the Merrill Lynch merger in 2009. While cutting VaR reduces risk, it also limits profits, and in past times. notes a former Fed bank examiner turned college teacher, banks used episodes of higher volatility to step in and make money. In a Dodd-Frank world, making money in this fashion may not be received well by regulators.
2016-5-12	GS	Goldman among those probed over shell companies	In what could only be described as certain to happen once the Panama Papers leak hit, the New York Department of Financial Services has asked Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), along with BNP Paribas (OTCQX:BNPQY), CIBC (NYSE:CM), and Standard Chartered (OTCPK:SCBFF) about their possible involvement with shell companies, according to CNBC. The NYDFS also requested information from 13 other lenders over the matter last month.
2016-5-6	GS	Goldman cuts more fixed-income staff	The trading business likely isn't improving much in Q2 as Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has let go about 100 people this week in its latest round of cuts, according to the WSJ. While it's not unusual for the bank to shed workers, the cuts have ben deeper than usual this year in a number of divisions, particularly fixed-income trading. This latest round means Goldman has let go about 10% of its fixed-income staff in 2016. “They have adjusted to the environment," says Evercore ISI's Glenn Schorr.
2016-5-2	GS	CLSA: Goldman should think about buying E*Trade	This sort of idea tends to pop up about once a year, but - with Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) in the market for consumer savings deposits and looking to lend to the somewhat well-to-do, not just the super-rich - it may carry a little more currency this time around. CLSA's Mike Mayo says a Goldman purchase of E*Trade (ETFC +1.9%) would give the bank access to increased deposits and free up currently trapped excess capital. He currently has a Buy rating on GS.
2016-5-2	GS	Goldman targets "mass affluent" lending	A far cry from the serious types of money Goldman (NYSE:GS) usually deals with, a new strategy taking shape calls for the bank to partner with small brokerages and wealth management firms to lend money to their clients. It's about Goldman being able to reach a far larger set of potential borrowers without having to acquire them through a merger or through a slow organic process, reports Reuters, noting the plan is still in early stages and may not be active until 2017. The typical client in Goldman's U.S. private wealth unit has an average account size of $50M, but this new strategy will include those with less than $1M in investable assets. With once-formidable business like trading mired in a secular slump, Goldman - which produced just a 6.4% ROE in Q1 - is looking for growth elsewhere. The new strategy will have Goldman maybe looking more like rival Morgan Stanley, which also has focused more on lending in recent years. Morgan, however, lends to its own clients, while Goldman would be lending through third parties.
2016-4-29	GS	Goldman's co-head of global fixed income to exit	Alongside the rest of the industry, Goldman Sachs (GS -0.7%) is struggling mightily with is looking more like a secular decline in fixed income, currency, and commodity trading - with revenue in that unit down 47% Y/Y in Q1. The bank's co-head of global FICC sales, Dalinc Ariburnu joined in 2009 and ascended to his current role in 2013. He's retiring, reports Reuters, and will be replaced by Jim Esposito, who will also continue with his current role as chief strategy officer for the securities division. Tom Cornacchia will continue as co-head of global FICC sales.
2016-4-25	GS	Change needed at Goldman after "lost decade" - Dick Bove	While the industry Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) serves has been dramatically restructured over the past decade, says Dick Bove in a report titled "The Lost Decade," the company was not. While the CEO and COO at Goldman have earned more than $500M since the end of 2006, the company stock price has underperformed the S&P 500's already meek 47% advance by a full 67 percentage points. Goldman's performance in relation to the other large banks is more middle-of-the-road. He takes management to task for continuing to put too much capital to work in businesses in secular decline like trading and investment banking. Now read: How To Milk The Mispricing Of Goldman Sachs (April 25)
2016-4-22	GS	Goldman goes for retail deposits	Following its acquisition of GE Capital's online deposit operation, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) wastes no time with GS Bank offering a beefy 1.05% APR on an online savings account and 2% for a 5-year CD. The nationwide average for savings accounts is only about 0.08%. It's all about virtual banking, and the money Goldman is saving not having a brick and mortar network is going into better rates. Goldman isn't offering checking accounts, which would likely require some physical branch presence.
2016-4-20	GS	With fixed-income dead, banks pile into equities	With sharp declines in fixed-income revenue looking less cyclical and more secular with each passing quarter, banks like Citigroup (NYSE:C), UBS, and Deutshce Bank (NYSE:DB) are among those trying to grow their equities business. It sounds like a good idea, but with everyone diving into the same low-margin pool at the same time, that business is likely to come under pressure as well. The newcomers are also fighting against more established players like Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS). "If everyone tries to grow equities, the economics aren't going to be that great," says analyst Guy Moszkowski. "It's also not going to be easy." Along with razor-thin margins, launching and growing an equities trading business takes a big up-front investment that could take years to bear fruit. Will investors already grappling with low ROEs stand for it? They may have to as it's where the money is. Data from research firm Coalition says while bond trading revenue fell  36% over the five years ended in 2015, stock-trading revenue grew 23%.
2016-4-19	GS	Goldman has a frightful quarter, but stock surges	We'll do one more post on Goldman's (NYSE:GS) lame Q1 results, but the stock is higher by 2% today, and so gives a pretty good idea of the value of looking backward when picking shares. Return on equity during the quarter was only 6.4% - that's against a "more normal" level of 11%, says Evercore's Glenn Schorr, sounding like he's ready to cut his $184 price target. ROE routinely exceeded 30% prior to the financial crisis. Nomura's Steven Chubak calls the quarter disappointing, and notes the bank's drop in FICC and equities revenue was among the worst in the industry. The WSJ's Moneybeat blog provides this helpful chart of revenue declines in Q1 among the big banks. Goldman is a major outlier to the downside. What the heck happened in Investing & Lending, where revenues fell to essentially zero from $1.7B a year ago? On the earnings call, CFO Harvey Schwartz says investments in public equities more than offset gains in private equity paper, and the lending side of the operation took a hit from energy. Now read: Nothing Unexpected And Nothing Good In Bank Results So Far (April 18)
2016-4-19	GS	Rough quarter for Goldman, but bottom line tops estimates	Q1 EPS of $2.68 beats expectations by a mile, but is down from $5.94 one year ago. CEO Lloyd Blankfein speaks of headwinds across nearly all business lines during the quarter. Investment Banking revenues of $1.46B down 23% Y/Y. Financial advisory revenue of $771M down 20%. Underwriting revenue of $692M down 27%, with equity underwriting down big, and debt underwriting up big. Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.44B down 37% Y/Y. FICC revenue of $1.66B down 47%. Equities revenue of $1.78B down 23%. Investing & Lending revenue of $87M, down sharply from last year. Investment Management revenue of $1.35B down 15%. Compensation and Benefits of $2.66B down 40% Y/Y. Ratio of comp and benefits to revenue of 42% is unchanged. CET1 ratio of 12.2% down 20 bps from three months ago. Tangible book value per share of $163.54 up 1%. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $0.23, misses on revenue (April 19) GS -0.1% premarket
2016-4-19	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $0.23, misses on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q1 EPS of $2.68 beats by $0.23. Revenue of $6.34B (-40.3% Y/Y) misses by $390M.
2016-4-18	GS	Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open	AMTD, CMA, EAT, EDU, GPC, GS, HOG, JNJ, KSU, LECO, MTG, NTRS, OMC, PLD, PM, SNV, TTS, UNH, WBS
2016-4-18	GS	GE close to U.S. banking system exit	General Electric (NYSE:GE) has completed the sale of GE Capital's U.S. online deposit platform including the transfer of all deposits to Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). "With this sale, we are now in a position to fully exit the U.S. banking system by extinguishing our final U.S. bank charter and terminating our FDIC insurance, which we are targeting to complete by the end of this week," GE Capital CEO Keith Sherin declared. Under the agreement, approximately $16B of deposits, which are comprised of online savings accounts and CDs, have been transferred and will be serviced by Goldman. Now read General Electric: Jeff Immelt Holds All The Cards
2016-4-15	GS	Report: Goldman looking for even deeper cost cuts	The bank is already expected to show sizable expense cuts when it reports its Q1 next week, but it's recently begun dismissing more support staff and is increasingly rejecting spending on airfare, hotels, and entertainment, according to Bloomberg. The moves come as Goldman (NYSE:GS) tries to ride out a trading slump that is looking less cyclical and more secular by the day. The bank has already made an effort to rely more on junior bankers and moved support staff out of high-rent areas into cheaper locations. Whether it'll be enough to satisfy investors remains to be seen. Morgan Stanley's Betsy Graseck expects Goldman to report Q1 operating expenses of $4.76B - while that's down 29% and the lowest amount for a Q1 in a decade, its less than the 37% decline expected by consensus forecasts. Now read: Goldman Sachs: Trading Below Tangible Book Value And About 25% Undervalued
2016-4-13	GS	Financials lead markets higher after JPMorgan results	JPMorgan's revenues and profits both fell from a year ago, but the lame performance of the banks thus far this year has already priced in a weak quarter. JPMorgan is higher by 3.8%, with Citigroup (C +4.7%), Bank of America (BAC +3.5%), Wells Fargo (WFC +1.7%), Goldman Sachs (GS +2.9%), and Morgan Stanley (MS +4.4%) joining the party. The XLF is higher by 1.75% vs. the S&P 500's 0.7% advance. But what about all of these players (except for Citi) having their living wills rejected by the Fed, FDIC, or both? A sideshow, no doubt. Regulators are going to regulate - like the commercial goes, "It's what they do." Banks will tweak plans, numbers, or whatever they need to in order to get D.C. to eventually sign off. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, IAI, IYG, FNCL, SEF, FXO, RYF, KCE, FINU, RWW, XLFS, FINZ, FAZZ
2016-4-13	GS	D.C. rejects living wills of most major banks	As leaked last night, regulators have sent so-called living wills by five major U.S. banks back to the drawing board. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), BNY Mellon (NYSE:BK), and State Street (NYSE:STT) have until Oct. 1 to revise their plans or face potential penalties. Official announcement Regulators were split on Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), with the FDIC giving Goldman a thumbs down, but the Fed not, and just the opposite for Morgan. Citigroup (NYSE:C) is the only one of the major banks not to have their plan rejected, though both the Fed and FDIC found "shortcomings" that need to be addressed by July 2017. The next time you're thinking about complaining over some silly fee charged by your lender, have a thought for the armies of accountants, analysts, and lawyers the bank is paying to comply with D.C.'s whims. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, IYG, FNCL, SEF, FXO, RYF, FINU, RWW, XLFS, FINZ, FAZZ Now read: Financials Are Set To Miss Already Lowered Earnings Estimates
2016-4-13	GS	WSJ: Regulators to reject 'living wills' of some big banks	At least half of the eight U.S. banks labeled "systemically important" are expected to receive "harsh verdicts" regarding their so-called living wills, sending them scrambling to revise plans about how they would handle a potential bankruptcy, WSJ reports. The move, which could come as soon as this week, would raise the prospect of higher capital requirements or other regulatory sanctions for some of the institutions, and underscore fears that the firms remain "too big to fail" without a taxpayer bailout. Related tickers: BK, STT, BAC, JPM, C, GS, MS, WFC
2016-4-12	GS	Banks will face questions on unfunded loans	“Let’s not sugarcoat it, this is not necessarily a loan a bank wants to make at this point,” says Evercore ISI's Glenn Schorr, talking about loans banks have committed to for energy companies, but upon which those firms have not yet drawn. In Q1, energy borrowers announced draws of more than $3B on these loans, saddling banks with maybe more exposure to the sector than they or their investors would like right now. Citigroup (NYSE:C), for example, has about $20B in funded energy loan exposure, but commitments for nearly another $40B. Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) has loans of just over $20B and commitments for another $20B-plus. Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), SunTrust (NYSE:STI), Comerica (NYSE:CMA), Regions Financial (NYSE:RF), and KeyCorp (NYSE:KEY) are showing similar stories (though mostly smaller amounts). Add it up, and there's $147B of unfunded loans disclosed by the ten of the largest U.S. banks.
2016-4-12	GS	Goldman Sachs could be big loser in Brexit	The bank is building a $500M shiny, new European headquarters in London, but it could be a bit emptier than expected should the U.K. in June vote to exit the EU, say Goldman (NYSE:GS) executives. Source: WSJ's Max Colchester A number of big global banks use the U.K. as their springboard into Europe - a key attraction being the ability to sell services seamlessly across all 28 EU states. They "have the most to lose," says one lawyer advising several lenders on the Brexit. It should thus come as no surprise that the banks are lobbying hard against the Brexit vote, with Goldman among those leading the charge (interestingly, BofA has pulled back from the fight). Now read: Are We About To Get A New 'Euro Spasm'? (April 11)
2016-4-11	GS	Goldman Sachs finalizes mortgage settlement for $5B	The bank will pay $5B to settle federal and state investigations into its sale of MBS prior to the financial crisis. A chunk of that money will go toward consumer relief - some in cash, but most into some of government's favored housing-related programs. GS +0.9% on the session.
2016-4-8	GS	Goldman Sachs trims executive pay	It's about a 4-5% cut in pay for Goldman (NYSE:GS) management in 2015 after the bank's results took a hit from a middling macro environment and higher regulatory costs. Also at issue was Goldman's $5B agreement to settle MBS-related suits. CEO Lloyd Blankfein will (sort of) pony up $1M for that, as his pay and bonus was cut to $23M from $24M a year earlier. A check of the scorecard finds Goldman lost 7.8% last year vs. the S&P 500's 2.1% decline.
2016-4-8	GS	Banks tweak employment models to retain young talent	According to a LinkedIn analysis done for the WSJ, analysts and associates who exited investment banks in 2015 had stayed an average of 17 months vs. 26 months a decade ago. Going back another ten years, the average tenure was 30 months. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS) are among the banks altering age-old traditions for young bankers - crazy-long hours of drudgery, slow advancement - to better suit the attitudes of this particular generation of worker bees. “We’re focused on trying to understand what’s important to the folks we hire right out of school,” says John Waldron, co-head of investment banking at Goldman. "Every day I can see the direct result of my action," says an ex-employee of Moelis (NYSE:MC), who gave up all-nighters preparing pitch books for the boutique investment bank to instead work for a mobile-gaming startup.
2016-4-7	GS	Big banks: The CCAR submissions are in	"We are confident in the capital strength of the large and mid-cap banks - and with that, their capacity for increased capital returns," says Credit Suisse's Susan Roth Katzke. Stronger balance sheets, she says, should outweigh what is a harsher adverse scenario from the Fed. Roth and team see a total net capital return increase of 77% vs. 58% in 2015, with a median payout ratio of 31% vs. 27%. Incremental dollars should be skewed to buybacks given cheap stock valuations and the Fed's preference for the flexibility afforded by repurchases. Best positioned for the highest capital return are Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Regions Financial (NYSE:RF), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB), PNC Financial (NYSE:PNC), and U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB). The highest incremental capital returns should come from Zions Bancorp (NASDAQ:ZION), Citigroup (NYSE:C), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), and M&T Bank (NYSE:MTB). The lower end of payout ratios should fall on Huntington Bancshares (NASDAQ:HBAN) and Bank of America. Now read: Sell The Banks: The Invisible Hand Is Broken (April 4)
2016-4-7	GS	WSJ: Fed warned Goldman on 1MDB	Regulators at the Fed in early 2014 told Goldman Sachs (GS -2.1%) its dealing with Malaysia's government investment fund could put the firm's reputation at risk, reports the WSJ. The bank's Southeast Asia chairman Tim Leissner was at first suspended and has now left Goldman over his involvement with the fund. The smoking gun was a reference letter he wrote on behalf of a Malaysian investor with ties to 1MDB. Leissner may have violated bank policy, but he hasn't been accused of any legal wrongdoing, and is cooperating with investigators. Now read: Goldman Sachs: Trading Below Tangible Book Value And About 25% Undervalued
2016-4-6	GS	Investment bankers mull inversion crackdown	It's not just the companies who won't be merging that are affected, but the bankers who advise on those deals. Pfizer's advisers on its now-kaput Allergan purchase - Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Moelis & Co. (NYSE:MC) among them - were set to reap $120M-$150M in fees. Allergan's - JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) - had been looking at a $160M-$200M payday. In all, U.S. investment banks have advised on more than $700B of inversion deals since 2011, including $240B worth last year. Credit Suisse estimates inversion deal fees have made up about 5-6% of overall M&A fees. Smaller firms may feel the sting the most, with shops like Lazard (NYSE:LAZ) and Greenhill (NYSE:GHL) joining Moelis in that category. “Poof goes the inversion," says one investment banker. "They’ve killed the goose that was laying some of our M&A eggs."
2016-4-5	GS	Goldman bears brunt of Q1 earnings revisions	Late-inning earnings cuts for Goldman Sachs (GS -1.1%) (and the rest of the big banks) have become the norm of late, but analysts have slashed $0.94 from Goldman's estimated Q1 bottom line over the past month, according to Bloomberg, and now see EPS at $3.31, down 45% Y/Y. "There's no saving this quarter," says Evercore ISI's Glenn Schorr, as a big rebound in business in March didn't materialize. Should that $3.31 number be inline, it would be the weakest first quarter for Goldman since 2008. The trading weakness story is an old one, but the IPO market sputtered in Q1, with just $14B globally - down 67% from a year ago. High-yield debt sales tumbled 54% to $40B.
2016-3-31	GS	Low expectations could serve big banks well in upcoming earnings season	With everybody expecting continued capital markets weakness and additional energy-related loan loss reserve builds, it may not take much positive news - better than hoped top line growth, efficiency gains, limited credit deterioration - to send bank stocks higher, say Credit Suisse's Susan Katzke and team. There's also the chance of numbers dampening sentiment even further, they say, as perhaps results turn out even worse than the current low expectations. The team continues to favor Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) among the large caps. Now read: Bank Of America: To Buy Or Not To Buy (March 31)
2016-3-30	GS	Goldman closes first stage of fundraising for new infrastructure fund	Infrastructure - think bridges, airports, toll roads, and the like - is all the rage these days, and Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) newest infrastructure fund closed its first stage of fundraising with about $1.5B, reports Reuters. It's targeting $3B in total. The bank's previous such fund raised $3.1B in 2010, and Goldman has raised more than $10B for infrastructure investments since 2006.
2016-3-22	GS	Bond market thaw as Citigroup and Goldman unload BioMed deal debt	Citigroup (NYSE:C) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) were able to clear their books of about $1.8B of debt backed by Blackstone's purchase of BioMed Realty Trust. There was strong demand for the offering, inline with what one might expect given the strong rally in risk assets over the past six weeks. There's also a "flight-to-quality" thanks to Blackstone's track record as a borrower. Wall Street banks funded a full $14B of real estate buyouts last year - that fast pace combined with the market troubles early this year led to serious congestion on their balance sheets, and the spread between CMBS and Treasurys jumped to nearly three percentage points earlier this year from about one-and-a-half a year ago. That spread has narrowed to 240 basis points since the rally began in mid-February.
2016-3-21	GS	Fed greenlights Goldman's purchase of GE's online bank	Part of GE's efforts at transforming itself from a bank disguised as an industrial company into a just an industrial company, it's agreed to sell it's online bank to Goldman Sach's (GS -0.9%) Goldman Sachs Bank. Some had argued the deal would make Goldman's too-big-to-fail status even more so, but the Fed says the $17B in deposits involved would have a "negligible effect." The deposits would, in fact, improve Goldman's financial stability by providing it with a consumer deposit base. After the purchase, Goldman Sachs Bank would have about $95B in deposits. Full order
2016-3-21	GS	Goldman Sachs probed on rigging of US treasuries	Probe on rigging of $13 trillion US treasuries by Wall Street banks has been narrowed down to few firms including Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). They are one of the 22 firms being probed. Justice department has obtained chats and emails from Goldman that show the bank's involvement in price manipulation on treasury bonds. Those are being analyzed to find out if traders from other banks were involved. European authorities are investigating the bid rigging process as well. The possibilities of price-rigging in the secondary market is also being looked since debt is sold at a premium. Goldman, run by CEO Lloyd Blankfein is a major player in submitting bids for actions. The investigators have not put definite charges yet and EC spokesman Ricardo Cardoso has declined to comment.
2016-3-17	GS	Pay falls at Goldman's European unit	Goldman Sachs International (NYSE:GS) had total wages and salaries of $2.45B last year, down 6.4% Y/Y even as headcount rose 10%. Pay per employee of $400K was about 15% lower than 2014. Helped by advisory fees, total investment banking revenue of $1.28B fell just 8%, but underwriting revenue plunged 27%. "We can absolutely do a lot more on the cost side if we have to," said CEO Lloyd Blankfein recently. Previously: This just in: It was probably a rough quarter for Goldman (March 17)
2016-3-17	GS	This just in: It was probably a rough quarter for Goldman	That Wall Street banks will report lame trading and dealmaking revenue this quarter is no secret as a number of managements have floated weak numbers at various investor conferences over the past couple of weeks. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), however, has kept mum, but the team at Credit Suisse figures investment banking income at Goldman will tumble 32% from the year-ago quarter. Trading revenue looks set to fall 17%. It seems the question at this point is not about how big the percentage declines will be, but about whether it's been more than priced in. Bank stocks have gotten hammered this year, and even after a strong rally over the past three weeks, Goldman is lower by 16.5% YTD. Also, as bad as January and February were, it will be interesting to see what managements (on earnings calls) have to say about March and April as markets have taken a big turn for the better.
2016-3-15	GS	Jefferies posts Q1 loss	"Our overall Q1 results reflect an exceptionally volatile and turbulent market environment during our first fiscal quarter," says Jefferies (NYSE:LUK) CEO Richard Handler. "A quiet December was followed by an extremely challenging January and first few weeks of February." The investment bank posted a loss of $166.8M in Q1 vs. a profit of $12.9M a year ago. Revenue of $299M fell a full 49%, led by an 82% plunge in trading revenue to $58.8M. Of this, fixed-income revenue fell to $56.8M from $126M. Equity trading revenue fell to just $1.7M from $203.5M thanks to markdowns on two equity block trades. Good times ahead: Not only have markets stabilized, says management, they've "aggressively snapped back" in the early part of Q2. Coming one month ahead of the rest of the Wall Street banks, Jefferies results are often seen as a bellwether of what to expect. It sounds like Goldman (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), CItigroup (NYSE:C), and JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) have the month of March to make up for what was a very lame start to the quarter. ETFs: IAI, KCE, KBWC
2016-3-14	GS	Goldman buys online retirement benefits company	Looking to boost financial services offerings to small business and startups, Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) investment management unit buys Austin-based Honest Dollar. The company charges fees as low as $8 per employee per month, according to its website. With regulatory and macro pressures crimping Goldman's traditional profit centers like trading, the bank is looking for ways to boost its investment management business. Other moves include the recent launching of an ETF operation.
2016-3-11	GS	Bloomberg: Wall Street wants a piece of BlackRock	While the big Wall Street banks are struggling with slides in fixed-income revenues, business is booming at BlackRock (NYSE:BLK) and other ETF providers offering credit-related products. The banks, writes Lisa Abramowicz, want some of that business back. The issue for banks are new regulatory and capital rules which make it harder to hold big inventories are paper investors want to trade. Meanwhile, the ease of moving in and out of vehicles like BlackRock's $25B IG bond fund (NYSEARCA:LQD) or its $16B junk-bond fund (NYSEARCA:HYG) have led to surging volumes, even as the individual securities underlying those ETFs are more difficult to trade. Banks are responding with the total-return swap in which an investor pays a fee to a counterparty who promises delivery of the total gain on a basket of certain debt. These instruments are not only quickly traded without having to deal with the underlying securities, but are pegged to some of the same indexes as the biggest credit ETFs. Citigroup (NYSE:C) just became the eight dealer in these derivatives (joining GS, BAC, JPM, MS, CS, DB and OTCQX:BNPQY), which are being pitched by banks as an alternative to ETFs.
2016-3-10	GS	More details into Goldman's Malaysia fund issues	The bank hired the daughter of an ally to Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak around the time its bankers were trying to win business from the country's investment fund 1MDB, according to a WSJ report. The Journal yesterday reported that high-powered rainmaker Tim Leissner was let go from Goldman (NYSE:GS) over this issue. Goldman is among a number of U.S. banks under investigation for their hiring practices in Asia. Previously: WSJ: Goldman partner quit after violations (March 8)
2016-3-8	GS	WSJ: Goldman partner quit after violations	Recently-departed star banker TIm Leissner - Goldman Sach's (NYSE:GS) Southeast Asia chairman - exited after a bank probe found he allegedly violated company policies, reports the WSJ. At issue was a letter sent by Leissner in which he agreed to have Goldman hire the child of a bigwig involved in a deal for control of an Indonesian copper-mining operation. The bank has found nothing untoward in his dealings with 1Malaysia Development, the Malaysian government-investment fund engulfed in a major scandal. Meanwhile, Leissner has reportedly been subpoenaed by U.S. investigators probing that fund. The departure of a major rainmaker like Leissner is a blow to Goldman, but things that have been standard business practice for years no longer fly in today's regulatory climate. Previously: Key Goldman rainmaker exits (Feb. 24)
2016-3-4	GS	Goldman boosts ETF lineup	Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) burgeoning ETF operation now offers five funds after the launch of the Goldman Sachs ActiveBeta Europe Equity ETF (GSEU) and the Goldman Sachs ActiveBeta Japan Equity ETF (GSJY). As with the previous three ETFs which dame to market late last year, the two new funds were opened with institutional assets of $25M each. Each has an expense ratio of 0.25%. Those original three now have more than $1B in combined AUM. In addition, the Goldman Sachs ActiveBeta International Equity ETF (NYSEARCA:GSIE) - which came to market in November - has its fee cut to 0.25% from 0.35%. Previously: Goldman discloses fees on suite of "smart beta" ETFs (Sept. 11, 2015)
2016-3-4	GS	Goldman and BofA cutting fixed-income traders	The two banks periodically cull their low performers, but - after an especially rough start to 2016 - cuts this year promise to be a little deeper. According to Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) will eliminate more than 5% of traders and salespeople (5% is the usual norm), and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) will dismiss about 150. "We remain committed to our FICC business, but we’re also managing to the cycle,” said Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein last month. Last week, JPMorgan's Daniel Pinto said FICC trading revenue is lower by about 20% this year.
2016-3-3	GS	Gross: Epic era of credit expansion ending	The global economy has been powered by credit for more than 40 years, says Bill Gross - noting official credit outstanding today of $58T is 58x that of 1970. That expansion, though, looks to be ending, as private sector savers are growing leery, and regulators build fences against fast creation. And don't forget the meager returns, with negative interest rates in 40% of Euroland, and out ten years on the curve in Japan. The collapse in bank stocks globally isn't necessarily about energy losses. Price charts since 2007 for players like Citigroup (NYSE:C), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS), Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) suggest the sector's either a screaming cheap buy, or "a permanently damaged victim of writes-offs, tighter regulation, and significantly lower futures margins. I'll vote for the latter." Then there's insurers, whose business models - which depend on 7-8% returns from risk assets - are at risk. They're not going bankrupt, but future profitability for companies like MetLife (NYSE:MET), Prudential (NYSE:PRU), and Hartford (NYSE:HIG) will be stifled as claims can't be covered as easily when investment returns are so lame. The same goes or pension funds, and Puerto Rico is going down Detroit's path not just because of overpromised benefits, but because they're not earning enough on their investment portfolios to cover those promises. Central bankers, meanwhile, think they can solve things by cutting rates just a bit further. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, IYG, SEF, FNCL, FXO, RYF, FINU, RWW, FINZ, XLFS
2016-3-2	GS	Citi hires two from Goldman in equity push	The co-head of equity structuring and marketing for EMEA for Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Quentin Andre is joining Citigroup (NYSE:C) as head of structured sales. Goldman's co-head of equity derivatives, Dirk Keijer is joining Citi as head of equity derivative sales for EMEA. Other recent Ciit hires in this area include Murray Roos from Detusche to the new role of global head of sales for equities and prime finance, and Steve Roti from Nomura. In another exit of talent, Jack Daly - who leads industrial deals in Goldman's merchant banking group - is moving into the possibly greener pastures of private equity, as Bloomberg reports his hiring by TPG Capital.
2016-2-26	GS	High yield woes: Goldman struggling to sell Solera buyout bonds	In another sign of the difficulties lower-rated credits are having with borrowing, Goldman Sachs (GS +2.1%) is having a hard time moving $2B in paper backing the buyout of Solera Holdings, reports the WSJ. Solera late last year agreed to an LBO to Vista Equity Partners for $6.5B, including debt. The bonds backing the sale carry an especially weak Caa1 rating from Moody's, and it's in these lower-rated tranches where the worst of the high-yield carnage has taken place. Demand "is really nonexistent now," says one portfolio manager. Goldman had hoped to unload the Solera bonds at a price to yield about 10%, but by midday yesterday had only found buyers for about half of the paper, and pricing had moved above 11%. As painful as it is for borrowers, it's also so for the banks which earn big fees from lending commitments - great when the bonds are easy to move, but a profit eater when the stuff has so sit on the books for very long. Goldman, in particular, has sought to boost market share in this part of the business against traditional powerhouses like Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM). ETFs: HYG, JNK, HIX, HYLD, DHY, PHT, EAD, HYT, JQC, CIK, DSU, HHY, SJB, PHF, NHS, FHY, ACP, MCI, KIO, VLT, ARDC, ANGL, CIF, AIF, MHY, PCF, MPV, DHG, HYLS, IVH, JSD, UJB, GGM, CJNK, QLTC
2016-2-24	GS	Key Goldman rainmaker exits	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) Southeast Asia Chairman Tim Leissner had been on personal leave since January over his involvement in deals with the embattled Malaysian state investment fund 1Malaysia Development Bhd. He's been a partner at Goldman since 2006 and a key adviser to 1MDB since it was established in 2009. The Malaysian government is currently investigating allegations of graft at the fund. Source: WSJ
2016-2-22	GS	Goldman: 40% of energy lending is junk-rated	Of $10.6B in loans and loan commitments, $4.2B in junk-rated - $1.5B in actual loans, and $2.7B in unfunded commitments - according to the annual report. Energy exposure jumps another $1.9B counting derivatives and other receivables, but these are "primarily" to investment-grade firms, says Goldman (GS +1.1%). As comparison, Citigroup has $58B in funded and unfunded energy-related commitments, and Wells Fargo $17B. Source: Bloomberg Previously: Goldman slashes estimate for legal costs (Feb. 22)
2016-2-22	GS	Goldman slashes estimate for legal costs	The upper end of the bank's "reasonably possible aggregate loss" for legal actions is now $2B, according to Goldman's (NYSE:GS) annual report. That's down from the $5.3B estimate from Q3.
2016-2-19	GS	Goldman creating ETF from its hedge fund hotel research	Goldman Sach's (NYSE:GS) Hedge Fund Monitor is a popular report. Diving into 13F filings, the Monitor tracks the positions of hundreds of funds controlling in total nearly $2T in assets. The bank has filed for a Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund VIP ETF which will be based on Hedge Fund Monitor. It wouldn't be the first ETF to track hedge fund holdings (GURU comes to mind), but it would be the first time a bank has used its own research as the basis for an ETF. Back in 2013, Goldman said a basket of the 20 "most concentrated" hedge fund stocks had outperformed the S&P 500 69% of time, and by an average of 263 basis point per quarter, going back to 2001. Updated numbers aren't known at the moment.
2016-2-18	GS	WSJ: Bank-stock rout tramples bonuses	Just at Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), employees have taken $400M in paper losses on their restricted stock paid out as bonus last year, according to the WSJ. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), BofA (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) haven't yet reported 2015 stock grants, but their share prices have been similarly hit. Should slumping stock prices persist, it could add to the leakage of talent from Wall Street to tech and other industries, as bankers will be leaving a lot less money on the table. The issue is a test for new Dodd-Frank rules which forced banks to tailor incentive packages towards rewarding long-term health, rather than short-term profits. The result: Banks are now more likely to award restricted shares which don't vest for several years.
2016-2-16	GS	More on JPMorgan's upgrade of Goldman	Though noting a challenging environment for investment banks and cutting earnings estimates for 2016-18 by an average of 16%, analyst Kian Abouhossein reminds of Goldman's (GS +1.8%) cheap valuation (10x P/E and 0.9x book) and its position as a "Tier 1 player" in both fixed income and equities. He sees the company buying back about $15B of stock (23% of the market cap) over the three years, reducing the float by roughly 15% (the rest will be used for deferred compensation). "We believe for a well capitalized bank like GS with no capital/leverage issues, buying back shares when the stock is trading below NAV is the right strategy leading to earnings accretion," he says. Goldman's higher-than-peer compensation also gives the bank room to cut expenses should revenue decline significantly. Previously: JPMorgan buys the dip in Goldman and Morgan Stanley (Feb. 16)
2016-2-16	GS	New Fed member suggests breaking up the big banks	Former Goldmanite and TARP czar, and now Minneapolis Fed President, Neil Kashkari says the time is right for Congress to go further than Dodd-Frank "with bold, transformational solutions to solve [too big to fail] once and for all." Lawmakers, he says, should break up the largest banks into "smaller, less connected, less important entities." Other options would be turning the large lenders into public utilities by forcing them to hold so much capital that they can't fail, or taxing leverage throughout the financial system. Watching with interest: BAC, C, JPM, WFC, MS, GS
2016-2-16	GS	JPMorgan buys the dip in Goldman and Morgan Stanley	Both Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) win upgrades to Overweight from Neutral from JPMorgan. Morgan Stanley's new price target of $29 is about 25% above Friday's close and Goldman's price target of $180 represents 23% upside. Morgan was a $40 stock late last summer, and Goldman topped out a little earlier at nearly $220. Both names are higher in the area of 2% premarket. See also: JPMorgan throws in the towel on Credit Suisse (Feb. 16)
2016-2-11	GS	Financial names battered as rates plunge	Oil's lower by 3.3% today, but it's the financial sector (XLE -3.1%) again leading the S&P 500's 2.15% decline. For the year, the XLF is down by 17.9%, easily outpacing on the downside energy (down 13%) and the S&P 500 (down 11%). With the 10-year yield plunging all the way to 1.6% and short-term rates markets now beginning to price in Fed rate cuts this year, the banks are being hit particularly hard: Bank of America (BAC -8.1%), Citigroup (C -7.6%), JPMorgan (JPM -5.1%), Wells Fargo (WFC -2.9%), Goldman Sachs (GS -5.4%). Leading regionals (KRE -4.4%) lower are KeyCorp (KEY -5.9%), Huntington Bancshares (HBAN -4.9%), Fifth Third (FITB -5.4%), and PNC Financial (PNC -4.4%). ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, KRE, UYG, VFH, KBE, IYF, BTO, IAT, IYG, SEF, FNCL, FXO, KBWB, QABA, RYF, FINU, KBWR, KRU, RWW, FINZ, KRS, XLFS Previously: Lots of negative rate talk at Yellen hearing (Feb. 11) Previously: Insurers punished as rates plunge (Feb. 11)
2016-2-2	GS	Financials punished as markets drop, rates plunge	Alongside energy's underperformance today is the financial sector (XLF -2.4%). The long-awaited hope of a sustained rise in interest rates appears dashed once again - at least so far this year. The 10-year Treasury yield is lower by seven basis points to 1.88% - a nine-month low - and short-term rate markets are now pricing is less than one 25 basis point rate hike for the remainder of the year. TBTFs: Bank of America (BAC -4.4%), Citigroup (C -4%), Goldman Sahcs (GS -4.4%) Regionals: U.S. Bancorp (USB -2.5%), Regions (RF -3.1%), SunTrust (STI -4%) Life insurers: MetLife (MET -3%), Prudential (PRU -3.2%), Lincoln Financial (LNC -3.7%) Online brokerage: Schwab (SCHW -4.2%), E*Trade (ETFC -3.8%), Ameritrade (AMTD -3.6%) ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, BTO, IAT, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, KBWB, FINU, QABA, KRU, KBWR, RWW, RYF, FINZ, KRS, XLFS
2016-1-31	GS	Time to bet on big U.S. banks - Barron’s	Barron’s says it’s a good time to bet on the big banks after a rocky start to the year. The 10 biggest U.S. banks are trading for 8x-12x 2016 estimated earnings; the S&P 500 trades at 16x. Exposure to distressed U.S. energy companies is manageable. While leading Democratic presidential candidates are pushing for a breakup of the biggest banks, that possible eventuality could be a positive since many trade below their sum-of-parts. The following banks all have 20% upside: Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM), Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), BB&T (NYSE:BBT), PNC (NYSE:PNC), Suntrust (NYSE:STI), U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB). Barron’s also mentions Citizens Financial (NYSE:CFG) and Region’s Financial (NYSE:RF) favorably.
2016-1-27	GS	Key Goldman rainmaker in Asia takes leave	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.4%) Southeast Asia Chairman Tim Leissner is one of the firm's longest-serving bankers in Asia and has been a partner since 2006. He's been a key advisor to government investment fund 1Malaysia Development Bhd. since it was established in 2009. Leissner has been a major part of a number of lucrative, but controversial deals with 1MDB, reports the WSJ, including a $3B bond sale Goldman single-handedly arranged in 2013. That deal alone earned Goldman nearly $300M in fees (another way of putting it is it cost the Malaysian government $300M). The fund is under scrutiny for nearly $700M that found its way into Prime Minister Najib Razak's bank accounts via entities linked to 1MDB. Leissner remains an employee of Goldman, and has returned to the U.S.
2016-1-25	GS	Big bank pair trade from Nomura: Goldman up, JPMorgan down	Seeing a better risk/reward skew for Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) vs. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Steven Chubak upgrades the former to Buy from Neutral and downgrades the latter to Neutral from Buy. Legacy issues had kept Chubak on the sidelines for Goldman, but the bank's efforts at adapting (FICC and Investing & Lending now account for just 37% of revenue), its leading excess capital position, and significantly higher CCAR ratios have turned him bullish. The JPMorgan downgrade is of particular interest, says Chubak, as Q4 results and 2016 guidance were both strong. "However, as we evaluate potential sources of risk, we see comparable downside for JPM and GS, with greater upside potential at GS.
2016-1-20	GS	Goldman Sachs lower after earnings beat	Q4 earnings of $765M or $1.27 per share after a $1.8B or $3.41 charge for the mortgage settlement. Backing that out, the bank earned $4.68 per share, cruising past estimates for $3.54. Investment Banking revenues of $1.55B up 7% Y/Y. Financial advisory revenues of $879M up 27%. Underwriting revenues of $668M down 11%. Institutional Client Services revenues of $2.88B down 9% Y/Y. FICC revenues of $1.12B down 8% - "continued to operate in an environment characterized by low levels of client activity and difficult market-making conditions." Investing & Lending revenues of $1.3B down 15% Y/Y. Compensation and benefits of $12.68B for the year, roughly flat from 2014. The compensation and benefits ratio of 37.5% up from 36.8% in 2014. CET 1 ratio of 12.4% up from 12.2% a year ago. 22.1M shares bought back last year at an average price of $189.41 each. Tangible book value per share of $161.64 up 5% Y/Y. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $1.14, beats on revenue (Jan. 20) GS -1% premarket to $155.21 amid a general global market meltdown.
2016-1-20	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $1.14, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q4 EPS of $4.68 beats by $1.14. Revenue of $7.27B (-5.5% Y/Y) beats by $200M. Shares -4% PM.
2016-1-19	GS	Notable earnings before Wednesday’s open	AMTD, APH, ASML, CBSH, EAT, GS, NTRS, TEL
2016-1-14	GS	Goldman mortgage settlement to knock $1.5B off Q4 earnings	The bank has entered an agreement in principle to resolve investigations by a number of authorities relating to sales of MBS between 2005 and  2007. Under the terms of the agreement, Goldman (NYSE:GS) will pay a $2.385B fine, make $875M in cash payments, and provide $1.8B of consumer relief. The deal will cut Q4 after-tax earnings by about $1.5B.
2016-1-14	GS	UBS: JPMorgan results a positive for big banks	Taking out the noise, the UBS team led by Brennan Hawken says JPMorgan earned $1.30 per share in Q4, ahead of consensus by a nickel and ahead of UBS's estimates by a full $0.11. That's not bad considering the negative sentiment surrounding the bulge bracket firms, and it should be enough to provide some near-term relief for names like Citigroup (C +1.2%), Bank of America (BAC +1.6%), Goldman Sachs (GS +1.5%), and Morgan Stanley (MS +1.1%). As for the outlook, the moderate headwind from mortgage banking was the only notable item. Previously: Dimon on energy provisions: "I'd put up more if I could" (Jan. 14) Previously: More on JPMorgan: Benign credit cycle ends (Jan. 14) Previously: JPMorgan higher after earnings beat (Jan. 14)
2016-1-14	GS	More on JPMorgan: Benign credit cycle ends	The fourth quarter looks like it marked the time when credit costs stopped being a tailwind and began becoming a headwind for the banks, says Hedgeye's Josh Steiner, noting a reserve build of $0.03 per share. Loan loss provisions nearly doubled in the quarter as net charge offs jumped $100M sequentially (mostly related to energy). Steiner takes note of speedy loan growth - up 10.6% Y/Y and 3.4% sequentially during Q4 - but scratches his head over wisdom of accelerating lending into the end of the credit cycle. As for capital markets, M&A was the only strong area, with advisory revenue up 43% to $622M - a good through for shops like Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Lazard (NYSE:LAZ). Meanwhile FICC trading revenue fell 3%, equity trading fell 7%, and credit underwriting disappeared. "Flat is the new up in investment bank land," says Steiner's associate Jonathan Casteleyn. JPM is higher by 1.95% as the bank gets into its earnings call. Previously: JPMorgan higher after earnings beat (Jan. 14) Previously: JPMorgan Chase beats by $0.07, beats on revenue (Jan. 14)
2016-1-13	GS	WSJ: Goldman planning to lay off up to 10% of fixed-income traders/salespeople	In a move declared to be a "steeper-than-usual pruning of the firm’s least-productive employees," the WSJ reports Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is planning to cut up to 10% of its fixed-income traders and salespeople. The paper notes Goldman typically lays off ~5% of its workforce in March. However, bigger cuts are planned this year for Goldman's debt, currencies, an commodities division amid new regulations on risk-taking and capital. The cuts are expected to affect "no more than 250 people." In December, Morgan Stanley moved to cut 1,200 jobs, including 470 fixed-income and commodities traders and salespeople. Last week: Goldman wins in fixed income Last month: Banks stay in commodities, but lower risk
2016-1-13	GS	Punishment continues for financial stocks	It wasn't supposed to be this way after the Fed embarked on a rate hike cycle as these yield-starved names could finally look forward to earning a better spread on their money. Since the Fed hiked last month, however, the long bond yield has tumbled about 20 basis points, further narrowing the yield curve. With today's 1.3% decline, the XLF is lower by 7.6% YTD, about 200 basis points worse than the S&P 500 (but about 250 basis points better than the energy sector). TBTFs: Morgan Stanley (MS -3.9%), Goldman Sachs (GS -2.3%), Citigroup (C -1.8%) Regionals: U.S. Bancorp (USB -2%), Regions Financial (RF -3.4%), New York Community Bancorp (NYCB -2.2%) Mortgage-related names like Ocwen (OCN -6.2%), Nationstar (NSM -5.3%), Walter Investment (WAC -13.9%), and New Residential (NRZ -5.3%) have come in for particular punishment this day and this year. The mortgage REITs too: Hatteras Financial (HTS -4.4%), Western Asset (WMC -3.6%), New York Mortgage (NYMT -2.3%), Five Oaks (OAKS -5.2%), PennyMac (PMT -2.6%) ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, RWW, RYF, FINZ, XLFS
2016-1-11	GS	New Goldman ETF brings in $570M in assets	Launched late last year as part of the bank's (NYSE:GS) entry into the ETF business, the Goldman Sachs ActiveBeta Emerging Markets Equity Fund (NYSEARCA:GEM) uses four factors - value, momentum, quality, and low volatility - to select stocks. Unlike smaller new issuers of active ETFs, Goldman's offering came with a net expense ratio of 0.45%, though this is still higher than the 0.15% and 0.16% charged by Vanguard and Schwab, respectively. It also compares to 0.25% for iShares' single-factor emerging markets ETFs. While Goldman's ETF is designed to outperform the market-cap-weighted index (what fund isn't), its return of 0.17% since late September compares with 1.05% for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
2016-1-6	GS	Goldman wins in fixed income	Goldman Sachs' (GS -1.9%) bet on fixed-income is paying off so far, writes Lisa Abramowicz, with market share gains across the board - including its highest U.S. junk-bond underwriting rank (3rd) since 2003, and rising to the fourth-most active manager of new leveraged-loan sales. It's also making gains in debt sales in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. Was it worth it? For banks like Morgan Stanley (MS -2.7%) - which late last year cut its fixed-income staff by about 25% - the answer is no. At issue for Morgan (and other banks pulling back) is whether fixed-income profitability will ever return to its old levels given new regulations and more automation. But there are benefits beyond fees like increased trading activity and a pole position in underwriting M&A. Also, Greenwich Associates sees a pickup in traditional debt trading now that the Fed has finally hiked and traders can stop worrying about it.
2015-12-5	GS	Fed review finds shortcomings in its handling of stress tests	Key to the issues are the computer models the central bank uses to simulate how banks might perform during a recession. The results spewed out by these programs effectively determine the level of dividends and buybacks of the nation's large banks (not to mention the career path of bank managers). Source: WSJ Internal reviews found shortcomings in the Fed's system for double-checking the models - too few staff, too heavy reliance on certain key personnel, and lacking clear procedures and policies about certain aspects of the validation process. “Similar findings identified at institutions supervised by the Federal Reserve have typically been characterized as matters requiring immediate attention," according to the report. In response, the Fed has done what most bureaucracies do - hired more staff and created a supervisory committee. Nevertheless, the findings of the reviews are likely to add fuel to calls from bankers and lawmakers for the central bank to open up the "black box" of its stress-testing models. Among the interested parties are Citigroup (NYSE:C), which failed a stress test, and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), and JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) - all of whom have had their issues.
2015-12-4	GS	Banks stay in commodities, but lower risk	So-called inventory-financing deals - otherwise known as traditional banking - are on the rise. We're replacing market risk with credit risk, says Goldman's (NYSE:GS) Gregory Agran, global-co-head of commodity trading. Whereas before Goldman and others might have had a relatively small group placing wagers on the direction of commodities, they now have a far larger group working on making loans. It makes for a sizable drop in profit margins - these new deals have returns as low as 2 % - but doesn't run afoul of new bank regulations. Joining Goldman in moving to expand inventory-financing are JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC).
2015-12-3	GS	S&P downgrades raft of U.S. banks	Eight of the biggest U.S. banks have been downgraded by Standard & Poor's, following a rule approved by the Fed in October that will require large institutions to hold a stockpile of debt that can be converted into equity if they falter. "We now consider the likelihood that the U.S. government would provide extraordinary support to its banking system to be uncertain," S&P said in the statement. Firms affected include JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), BofA (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), BNY Mellon (NYSE:BK) and State Street (NYSE:STT).
2015-11-20	GS	Guggenheim on financials: Cautious on Discover and CapOne, bullish on Synchrony, Goldman	The credit card sector is notable of late for strong asset growth, says analyst Eric Wasserstrom, but it's not resulting in net income growth expansion. RIsing marketing and rewards costs combining with higher provisions are to blame, he says, and higher interest rates will boost funding costs and constrain margins. Wasserstrom and team see net income growth for Capital One (NYSE:COF) of just 0-2% in 2016-17, and for Discover (NYSE:DFS) of 1-2%, with all of this coming from share repurchases. He's got a better outlook for Synchrony Financial (NYSE:SYF), which is his pick in the card space. Turning elsewhere, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) - levered to the improving corporate M&A cycle - is his best idea.
2015-11-16	GS	Report: Goldman teams with Thomas H. Lee to buy GCA Services	Facility management group GCA Services provides janitors and cleaners to schools, airports, warehouses, power stations, rental car locations, and the like. The private equity arm of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Thomas H. Lee will have an equal stake in a group buying GCA from Blackstone (NYSE:BX) for about $1B, reports Reuters. GCA gets most of its business from the education sector and could benefit as more school districts outsource facility management (currently less than 20% is outsourced). Blackstone acquired GCA from another P-E firm in 2012 for about $600M.
2015-11-12	GS	Goldman names 425 managing directors	Among the managing directors - next stop up would be partner - are 96 appointed to the banking division and 103 to the securities unit. One quarter of those promoted are women, the highest-ever ratio. Goldman last named a new MD class in 2013, when it selected 280 for the role, and then decided to do the promotions every other year.
2015-10-28	GS	Goldman Sachs spinning off tech venture	Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) Lagoon is a collection of software giving employees secure access to business applications on their mobile phones as well as a number of Orbit apps providing email and other services remotely. The bank developed Lagoon about four years ago, and will now spin it out into a new entity to be managed and majority-owned by Synchronoss Technologies. Goldman will own a minority stake. Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein likes to say his company is as much a tech shop as it is an investment bank, and Chief Information Officer Martin Chavez has been trying to burnish his division's bona fides with Silicon Valley (Goldman has 11K engineers).
2015-10-26	GS	Early pop for Goldman Sachs after upgrade	An outlier to the upside among the large banks as well as the Dow thirty is Goldman Sachs (GS +1.1%) after Morgan Stanley upgrades to Overweight. The stock's bounced nicely this month, but is still lower by about 15% since late June. See also: Big bank pair trade at Morgan Stanley (Oct. 26)
2015-10-21	GS	Goldman hiring for new consumer lending business	Engineers, data scientists, operations staff, and customer service professionals are among those Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is seeking resumes for as it builds up its online lending business, reports Reuters. A number of key managers have already been brought on, including Citi credit card executive David Stark Jockey International's Dustin Cohn, and DIscover's Harit Talwar (who will head the operation).
2015-10-16	GS	Goldman fires analysts for cheating	A cynic might say the group deserves to be promoted to management, but roughly 20 analysts globally have been shown the door at Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) after they were discovered cheating on internal training tests, reports Bloomberg. It must have really been egregious, because it's fairly common practice for employees to "get assistance" with these sorts of tasks, especially since it's job performance, not how one does on tests, that determine a banker's career path. Of course, it's a new era of regulatory scrutiny for banks, and employment lawyers in the U.K. say new rules intended to improve internal oversight could trigger a wave of unfair-dismissal claims.
2015-10-16	GS	Goldman stung more than others by trading slump	“When everyone says, `Man, I’m taking down risks,’ nobody calls Goldman,” says UBS analyst Brennan Hawken. "When risk appetites are good and hedge funds are doing well, then Goldman’s going to do well.” Source: WSJ All of the Wall Street banks reported trading slumps in Q3 (Morgan Stanley has yet to report), but none more than Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), which saw profits drop 36% in the quarter, led by a 33% decline in FICC revenue - 10-22 percentage points more than that of peers. Goldman is staying the course, On a conference call with his managing directors, CEO Lloyd Blankfein reminded the group that FICC had carried Goldman in times when other lines of business struggled. Coming into the office during the two-week breaks between treatments for his curable form of lymphoma, Blankfein told them both he and Goldman would have better quarters ahead. As for the stock, its 15% or so decline since late June may have already discounted the lame quarter - it's ahead nicely since earnings were released yesterday morning. Previously: Goldman goes green after earnings miss (Oct. 15)
2015-10-15	GS	Goldman goes green after earnings miss	"Investors won't like the quarter," says Evercore's Glenn Schorr, but strong capital ratios, increasing buybacks, decent book value growth, and lots of compensation leverage will help bide time for better markets. Reiterating his Buy recommendation, Citigroup's Keith Horowitz says revenue trends looked good despite weak markets, and expense trends were better than expected. Comp and benefits expense of $2.35B was down 16% from one year ago, and the comp ratio dipped to 34% from 42% in H1. Barclays Jason Goldberg had hoped for a drop to 33%. Goldman (GS +1.2%) CFO Harvey Schwartz expects a full-year result of about 40% (comp expense often goes up in Q4). WSJ's Moneybeat Previously: Goldman Sachs slips after reporting sluggish quarter (Oct. 15) Previously: Goldman Sachs misses by $0.01, misses on revenue (Oct. 15)
2015-10-15	GS	Goldman Sachs slips after reporting sluggish quarter	Q3 earnings of $1.43B or $2.90 per share vs. $4.57 one year ago. ROE of 7% for the quarter, 8.8% for the first nine months of 2015. Tangible book value per share of $162.11. CET 1 ratio of 12.4%. CEO Lloyd Blankfein: “We experienced lower levels of activity and declining asset prices during the quarter, reflecting renewed concerns about global economic growth." Investment banking revenues of $1.56B up 6% from a year ago, but down 23% from Q2. Financial advisory revenues of $809M up 36% from a year ago thanks to the M&A boom. Underwriting revenues of $747M down 14%. Institutional client services revenues of $3.21B fell 15% Y/Y, and 11% Q/Q. FICC revenue of $1.46B fell 33% Y/Y, or 27% once a special gain from last year is excluded. Equities revenue of $1.75B gained 9%. Investing & Lending revenues of $670M fell 60% Y/Y, impacted by declining markets late in the quarter. Investment management net revenues of $1.42B fell 3% Y/Y and 14% Q/Q. Operating expenses of $4.82B fell 5% Y/Y and 34% Q/Q/ Compensation and benefits of $2.35B fell 16% Y/Y. Comp and benefits to revenue ratio of 40% for first nine months or year, flat from last year. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs misses by $0.01, misses on revenue (Oct. 15) GS -2% premarket
2015-10-15	GS	Goldman Sachs misses by $0.01, misses on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q3 EPS of $2.90 misses by $0.01. Revenue of $6.86B (-18.2% Y/Y) misses by $280M.
2015-10-14	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	BBT, BX, C, FCS, FRC, GS, HOMB, KEY, LNN, MTG, PM, PPG, TSM, UNH, USB, VAC, WBS, WGO, WNS
2015-10-14	GS	Goldman entangled in 1MDB scandal?	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) may be in hot water over its advisory role to Malaysia's troubled sovereign wealth fund - 1Malaysia Developmment Berhad. Citing unnamed sources, the WSJ reports the bank received more than $350M for consultant work related to the fund, which is currently under investigation for billions of dollars in missing money. The FBI and Justice Department have already begun examining Goldman's role in several 1MDB transactions.
2015-10-12	GS	Goldman on the move after Citi upgrade	Just ahead of Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) Q3 results, Citigroup buys the dip, upgrading the stock to a Buy from Hold. Shares +1% premarket. Citi also boosts Citizens Financial Group (NYSE:CFG) to Buy from Hold.
2015-10-7	GS	Goldman Sachs treasurer exiting	Liz Beshel Robinson, 46, is leaving at the end of the year, and will be replaced by Robin Vince, who is currently global head of the operations division. A protege of former CFO David Viniar, Robinson had been considered a candidate to replace him, though the job ultimately went to Harvey Schwartz. Her husband was head of strategy at Goldman's (NYSE:GS) investment-banking unit before leaving in 2014. Robinson had been treasurer since 2005 and was there for Goldman's conversion to a BHC amid the financial crisis. Source: Bloomberg
2015-10-6	GS	Goldman and Morgan Stanley win back prime brokerage business	The two U.S. banks lost plenty of trading action from hedge fund clients to European competitors during the financial crisis, but are winning it back in part thanks to new capital rules forcing the European lenders to whittle down their operations. According to Preqin, Goldman (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) have added about six hundred basis points of market share since the end of last year to 37%. Prime brokerage is one of the few areas on Wall Street where revenue and pricing are on the rise, say analysts, and could provide a buffer to Q3 earnings expected to take a hit from weaker FICC action. Among the European banks losing market share are Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), and Credit Suisse, whose new CEO plans further cutbacks in prime brokerage.
2015-10-5	GS	Morgan Stanley warns of earnings misses for big banks	The Street has priced in earnings declines for pretty much every sector, but Q3 and Q4 estimates for the financials have barely budged, and consensus sees Q3 results 10% above that of a year ago. Morgan Stanley's Huw van Steenis, however, sees FICC revenue declines of 10-25% - far more than the 5% or so that's been talked about by bank managements at recent investor conferences - as the commodity price crash combines with collapsing fixed-income trading, and the lack of volatility in forex action. With just $20B in FICC revenues, says van Steenis, Q3 is shaping up to be the second worst quarter for banks in the last two years. Leaving his own bank (NYSE:MS) out of the analysis, he sees FICC revenue declines of 17% at JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), 9% at Goldman (NYSE:GS), and 6% at BofA (NYSE:BAC) and Citi (NYSE:C). Bottom line: "On EPS, we are 4% below consensus on average across our coverage for 2015, and 5% below for 2016. The biggest delta is for Barclays (NYSE:BCS), BNP Paribas (OTCQX:BNPQY), and Goldman in 2015, and SocGen (OTCPK:SCGLY), HSBC, and BNP in 2016." Source: ZeroHedge
2015-10-1	GS	Bloomberg: JPMorgan to pay most in $1.86B CDS settlement	JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM) will pay almost a third of a $1.86B settlement to resolve accusations that a dozen big banks conspired to limit competition in the credit default swaps market, Bloomberg reports. JPM reportedly will pay $595M, followed by Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) with $230M, Barclays (NYSE:BCS) at $175M, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) at $164M, Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS) at $160M and Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) at $120M; BofA (NYSE:BAC), BNP Paribas (OTC:BNPZY), UBS, Citigroup (NYSE:C), Royal Bank of Scotland (NYSE:RBS) and HSBC would pay less than $100M each. The deal would avert a trial and end years of litigation by hedge funds, pension funds, university endowments, small banks and other investors, who sued as a group.
2015-10-1	GS	Another Goldman ETF opens for business	One week after the launch of its ActiveBeta U.S. Large Cap Equity ETF (NYSEARCA:GSLC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) rolls out one for emerging markets, the Goldman Sachs ActiveBeta Emerging Markets ETF (NYSEARCA:GEM). GEM comes with an expense ratio of 0.45%.
2015-9-28	GS	Glencore leads broad selloff in commodities firms, miners, even banks	It isn't just Glencore (OTCPK:GLCNF, OTCPK:GLNCY) who is tanking, as at least one measure of raw materials producers plunges to seven-year lows following the company's woes and data that showed weakening Chinese industrial profits. Shares of Glencore plunged 29% to close at just 69 pence, an all-time low, exaggerated by a damning report that said future earnings are so uncertain that the company may need to direct all of its efforts to repay debt. Freeport McMoRan (FCX -10.2%) is hit hard after breaking below support at $10/share, and global mining peers Rio Tinto (RIO -4.1%), BHP Billiton (BHP -4.5%) and Vale (VALE -9.4%) also are smacked down. A number of other firms also are in situations not that much different from Glencore, says DTN analyst Darin Newsom, noting that Caterpillar (CAT -2.2%) and Deere (DE -1.6%) have been struggling and adding that pressure on Glencore may “create a vacuum those other struggling companies could get sucked into." Along with oil and gas producers and precious metals miners, even financial stocks are affected, with Morgan Stanley (MS -3.6%) and Goldman Sachs (GS -3.4%) underperforming their banking peers, perhaps as investors grow nervous about the potential for any of Glencore's problems possibly blowing back on other commodity trading operations.
2015-9-28	GS	Comcast buying 51% of Universal Studios Japan for $1.5B	As leaked a couple of weeks back, Comcast's (NASDAQ:CMCSA) NBCUniversal agreed to the purchase of a majority stake in Universal Studios Japan from Goldman Sachs and other owners of the theme park. “We are excited to expand our global footprint with this wonderful theme park in Osaka,” said Comcast CEO Brian Roberts. “This investment represents a huge opportunity and commitment to creating value for our shareholders and continuing to grow internationally.” Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) currently has a majority stake in USJ, the owner/operator of Universal Studios Japan, with remaining shares held by Japanese P-E firms and a U.S. hedge fund. All will be selling more than half of their holdings to NBCUniversal. The deal is expected to close in November. Source: WSJ Previously: WSJ: NBCUniversal considering buying majority of Universal Studios Japan (Sept. 15)
2015-9-22	GS	Goldman's Blankfein undergoing treatment for lymphoma	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) CEO Lloyd Blankfein has been diagnosed with a "highly curable" form of lymphoma. His treatment plan over the next few months will include chemotherapy. He's expected to be able to work mostly as normal, but will have to cut back on some previously planned travel.
2015-9-21	GS	Goldman's first ETF opens for business	The $50M ActiveBeta U.S. Large Cap Equity ETF (NYSEARCA:GSLC) is the first of six "ActiveBeta" ETFs planned by Goldman. As noted a few sessions ago, the annual fee is just 0.09% - that's the same as the very much not "ActiveBeta" SPDR S&P 500 ETF. The average fee for a U.S. large-cap smart-beta ETF is 0.39%, according to Morningstar. Volume through 2 ET is a strong 167K shares. Source: Barron's Previously: Goldman discloses fees on suite of "smart beta" ETFs (Sept. 11)
2015-9-21	GS	Goldman upgraded at Oppenheimer	Previously concerned about Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) reliance on FICC trading - which accounted for 25% of total revenue last year - Oppenheimer's Chris Kotowski has changed his mind, noting the bank consistently outperforms peers in this segment. Also encouraging: The share of less capital-intensive businesses has increased to 60% of total revenue from 46% in 2010. Kotowski upgrades to Outperform with a $210 price target - 30% above Friday's close. Shares +1.4% to $183.50 premarket.
2015-9-16	GS	Guggenheim boosts M&A outlook	Merger-and-acquisition volume in 2016-17 should be $3.3T-$4.5T, says Guggenheim, up from its previous forecast of $2.7T-$4.5T. The current drivers of M&A are likely to remain in place; macroeconomic conditions may remain uneven; and several specific factors may compel consolidation in certain industries. Health care, media, and telecom activity has been robust, and should stay so. Activity in energy should increase, but banking M&A should stay subdued. The winners? U.S. bulge bracket and boutique firms have gained market share at the expense of European and other non-U.S. companies. Showing the most market share gains is Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), followed by Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), and Citigroup (NYSE:C). Goldman remains Guggenheim's Best Idea, and BofA and Ciit remain buys, partly thanks to the M&A thesis.
2015-9-14	GS	NY regulators reach deal with big banks over record-keeping on Bloomberg rival service	A day ahead of the launch of Symphony -- a service seen as a potential rival to Bloomberg's lucrative terminal business -- New York's Department of Financial Services has reached a deal with four banks over record keeping for the system, CNBC reports. Goldman Sachs (GS -0.4%), Bank of New York Mellon (BK -0.1%), Deutsche Bank (DB +0.1%) and Credit Suisse (CS -1.8%) are party to the deal where Symphony's chat service will keep all e-mail exchanges between the banks for seven years. The banks will also have to hand over a "spare set" of duplicate encryption keys to an independent auditor. Without the safeguards, the regulators worried that probes into insider trading and related crimes would be stymied.
2015-9-11	GS	Goldman discloses fees on suite of "smart beta" ETFs	The prices for the six funds are looking more than competitive, with the Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) ActiveBeta U.S. Large Cap ETF (GSLC) having an expense ratio of 0.09% - the same price as the giant SPDR S&P 500 ETF. The recently launched iShares FactorSelect MSCI USA ETF (NYSEARCA:LRGF) has a 0.35% expense ratio. The average fee for nontraditional large-cap U.S. stock-index ETFs is 0.39%, according to Morningstar. The Europe (GSEU), International (GSIE), and Japan (GSJY) funds will have fees of 0.35% vs. the iShares FactorSelect MSCI Global ETF (NYSEARCA:ACWF) which charges 0.5%. The other two funds are the ActiveBeta Emerging Markets ETF (GEM) and the ActiveBeta U.S. Small Cap Equity ETF (GSSC). Source: Barron's
2015-9-10	GS	Goldman Sachs leads financing round for online consignment store	Ordering used clothing online can be pretty hit or miss, but thredUp's edge is it's army of workers vetting each item individually. Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%) shows its increasing appetite for startups, leading an $81M Series E funding round, and bringing the amount raised by ThredUp to more than $125M.
2015-9-9	GS	New York probing primary Treasury dealers	New York regulators have sent letters seeking information to big banks that are primary Treasury dealers as part of a probe on potential manipulation of bond auctions, Reuters reports. The banks -- including Barclays (NYSE:BCS), Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Societe Generale (OTCPK:SCGLY) and Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS) -- aren't charged with specific wrongdoing at the moment, as the investigation is still in early stages. Boston's public employee pension fund, State-Boston Retirement System, had sued 22 primary dealers in July alleging conspiracy to manipulate Treasury auctions; meanwhile, little-known hedge fund Element Capital has been buying tens of billions of dollars worth of bonds at the auctions, well over its $6B assets under management, the WSJ reports, drawing attention from the Treasury Dept. Element Capital has been the largest purchaser in dozens of auctions over the past 10 months.
2015-9-9	GS	Goldman upgraded at BAML	Seeing an attractive entry point after the recent selloff, analyst Michael Carrier upgrades Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) to Buy. His $220 price target is 18% above last night's close. The $220 level is also about the spot from where Goldman began its slide in late-June. Shares +2% premarket to $189.60.
2015-8-31	GS	Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley upgraded at Evercore ISS	“When you feel like crying, it’s time to start buying," says analyst Glenn Schorr and team, boosting both Goldman (GS +0.7%) and Morgan (MS +1.6%) to Buy from Hold. Valuations look good after the roughly 15% pullback in both - with Goldman going for 9.7x earnings and 1.1x book, and Morgan at 9.2x and 1.0x. Q3 looks like it's been a tough one so far, but the quarter isn't over yet, and boosted volatility should mean higher volumes in both banks' FICC business. He also notes positive seasonality: While Sept. can be sluggish (and this year should prove no exception thanks to a late Labor Day and 2 mid-week Jewish holidays), October and December have proven to be strong months.
2015-8-26	GS	Goldman suffers losses in distressed debt trading	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has lost $50M-$60M on its distressed-trading desk this year, reports Bloomberg, as typically money-making strategies fail to work. Naturally, paper linked to commodity/energy plays hasn't panned out, but litigation-dependent investments - where experienced hands like Goldman typically have an edge - haven't been working. The desk is part of the bank's credit-trading business - a unit which has generated about 25% of Goldman's fixed-income trading revenue over the past five years - and there's been plenty of employee turnover in the past year. Overall, Goldman's fixed-income trading revenue fell 8.7% from a year ago in H1.
2015-8-19	GS	JPMorgan, Goldman, and Morgan Stanley team up to cut data costs	The new venture - Securities Product Reference Data, or SPReD - is likely to be launched in the next six to 12 months, reports the WSJ, with each of JPM, GS, and MS investing seven figures. The company will pull together and clean massive amounts of reference data on financial instruments at a lower cost than what each bank would spend on its own. With revenue growth slow and compliance costs on the on a fast rise, banks are under pressure to find savings wherever possible. Noninterest expenses at the six largest U.S. banks by assets rose 11.9% from 2009 to 2014. Data management spending is typically in the tens of millions of dollars, but can go as high as nine figures for the largest lenders, according to Deloitte Consulting.
2015-8-17	GS	Goldman Sachs bets on India real estate	Goldman (NYSE:GS) is investing $150M for a minority stake in Mumbai-based Piramal Realty, which will use the money to expand its property portfolio, including adding prime properties around the capital. Earlier this summer, P-E firm Warburg Pincus invested $284M for a minority stake in the company. Source: Reuters
2015-8-14	GS	Goldman Sachs sells Colombia coal unit to Murray Energy at steep loss	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is selling its Colombian mining operation to privately-held Murray Energy at a substantial loss, marking the end of the bank’s foray into the production of raw materials. Murray reportedly closed the deal for less than $10M after Goldman spent more than $600M on the operation. The deal includes two mines, more than 184M tons of coal reserves, a coal port facility, a stake in a railroad, 11 locomotives, 530 railcars and other assets. Goldman had come under heavy political and regulatory pressure in recent years to get out of risky commodity businesses, particularly those involving the ownership of assets.
2015-8-14	GS	Currency-rigging settlements soar past $2B	Five more banks have agreed to settle U.S. investor lawsuits tied to a global currency-rigging scandal, which claimed the institutions conspired to manipulate the $5.3T-a-day foreign-exchange market. HSBC (NYSE:HSBC), Barclays (NYSE:BCS), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), BNP Paribas (OTC:BNPZY) and Royal Bank of Scotland (NYSE:RBS) now join a list of nine firms which previously settled the class actions, bringing the total amount investors have recovered to $2B.
2015-8-13	GS	GE Capital deposits sold to Goldman Sachs Bank	General Electric (NYSE:GE) disposes of more of its bank-like assets, agreeing to sell GE Capital's U.S. online deposit platform along with all deposits ($16B) of GE Capital Bank to Goldman Sachs Bank U.S.A. (NYSE:GS). Coupled with the upcoming spinoff of Synchrony Financial, this deal will nearly mark a complete exit from U.S. banking operations, says GE Capital CEO Keith Sherin, and eliminates the exposure to U.S. deposit insurance.
2015-8-13	GS	Goldman to pay $272M to settle another mortgage lawsuit	This particular suit was filed by an electrical workers' pension fund over $6B in MBS purchased in 2007 and 2008. In agreeing to settle, Goldman (GS -0.1%) denied charges it misled investors about the underwriting of the loans backing the paper. A federal judge still must approve the sizable settlement. The bank last week disclosed a boost in its estimate of possible legal costs in excess of reserves to $5.9B from $3.8B a quarter earlier.
2015-8-12	GS	Goldman to give out "secret sauce" on trading	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is set to make available to clients more of the bank's proprietary tools to analyze markets and manage risk - systems which for years have given Goldman the remarkable ability to seemingly always be on the right side of big moves. While giving these tools away could allow bank clients to build their own systems and trade elsewhere, Goldman is hopeful the hedge funds and money managers will develop their owns apps to create strategies and still trade with the firm. It marks a major shift at Goldman, but the move is part of a new tech strategy by Chief Investment Officer R. Martin Chavez as the bank deals with a pile of new regulations and the rise of electronic markets. "Everyone looked to the West Coast, and saw how Silicon Valley" was sharing information and making use of their analytic capabilities, says Chavez. Source: WSJ
2015-8-3	GS	BofA hires senior retail banker from Goldman Sachs to boost M&A	Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) has hired away Richard Peacock from Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), to join its M&A group as a managing director, according to a memo obtained by The Wall Street Journal. He'll join in October after a standard leave. Peacock most recently was head of Goldman's consumer investment-banking division. Consumer and retail M&A has been picking up this year, up 52% Y/Y in the first half.
2015-8-3	GS	Goldman raises possible legal cost estimate to $5.9B	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.2%) raises its estimate for possible legal costs in excess of reserves to $5.9B, including costs that could arise from a Department of Justice probe into sales of mortgage-backed securities, up from $3.8B estimated three months ago. According to its latest 10-Q, GS says "potential resolution of this matter... may result in significant penalties and other costs." In July, GS reported its smallest quarterly profit in nearly four years as it set aside more than $1.45B to cover potential mortgage settlements.
2015-7-31	GS	Bloomberg: Goldman Sachs to pay $270M to settle mortgage securities suit	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has agreed to pay about $270M in a settlement with pension funds who sued saying Goldman misled them about the safety of residential mortgage-backed securities, Bloomberg reports. The suit is among the last few of the lawsuits related to the credit crisis of 2008. Goldman had set aside $1.45B this quarter for mortgage-related litigation and regulation. Last week, JPMorgan Chase said it would pay $388M to settle a similar suit, filed by the Fort Worth Employees' Retirement Fund over $10B of RMBS.
2015-7-31	GS	July's M&A tally the seventh busiest on record	According to Reuters, the value of merger and acquisition deals through July 30 was $436.4B, including 14 deals worth over $5B apiece. Although down from June's torrid pace of $546.8B, it still ranks as the seventh busiest month on record. Leading the pack was Teva's $40.5B purchase of Allergan's generic drugs business. The top investment bank in terms of the total value of transactions was Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), involved in 35 deals worth $148.8B, including half of the top ten. JP Morgan (NYSE:JPM) was second with 30 deals worth $116.1B while Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) was third with 33 deals valued at $95.9B. Global M&A so far this year is $2.64T, up 41% from last year. The action in the U.S. is up 66%. Energy and healthcare are the leading sectors. There have been 1,557 deals in energy worth $407B. Healthcare is close behind with 1,577 deals worth $395B. ETFs: UNG, USO, OIL, UGAZ, UCO, DGAZ, UWTI, BIB, SCO, BNO, BOIL, GAZ, DBO, DWTI, DTO, UGA, KOLD, USL, GRX, UNL, IRY, BIS, IXJ, DNO, BME, UHN, DBE, OLO, SZO, DCNG, GRN, RJN, FUE, OLEM, JJE, ONG, UBN
2015-7-27	GS	U.S. companies to invest $140B in support of U.N. climate change deal	Some of the biggest and best known U.S. businesses join the Obama administration in trying to build momentum for a deal at the climate change summit in Paris later this year. A dozen publicly traded companies - AA, AAPL, MSFT, BAC, BRK.B, KO, GM, GS, GOOG, PEP, UPS and WMT - committed to support a “strong" outcome in Paris, and made new pledges to take a variety of steps to tackle climate change. For example, Alcoa says it will reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions in the U.S. by 50% by 2025, and BRK plans to retire 75% of its coal-fueled generating capacity in Nevada by 2019. In addition to company-specific goals, the White House says today's announcements total at least $140B in new low-carbon investment and more than 1,600 MW of new renewable energy.
2015-7-24	GS	Guggenheim: Goldman and Zions replace Morgan Stanley and KeyCorp as best ideas	Goldman's (GS -1.8%) Q2 results confirmed the team's expectation of positive revisions to 2016 consensus EPS. Zions (ZION -0.7%) has "multiple catalysts" to reach improve profitability goals and EPS growth over the next three years. Guggenheim's four key investment themes: 1) Names levered to improving M&A, with Goldman being the best idea, followed by Morgan Stanley (MS -1.3%); 2) Restructuring stories, with Zions the best idea, but First Horizon (FHN -1%), Ally Financial (ALLY -1.8%), and BofA (BAC -1.6%) also worth looking at; 3) Idiosyncratic growth stories like MasterCard (MA +0.7%), Visa (V +4.5%), Synchrony Financial (SYF -2.4%), and Signature Bank (SBNY -0.8%); 4) Names with a distinct M&A catalyst in the regionals group like BB&T (BBT -1.5%), CIT Group (CIT -1.6%), and Springleaf (LEAF -1.4%). Mixed results from credit card companies affirm the team's preference for SYF, but the risk/reward at AmEx (AXP -1.4%) is improving. AmEx, CapOne (COF -13%), and Discover (DFS -2.7%) results show the boosted competition they face form the banks, which is slowing growth, and lifting marketing and rewards costs. Source: Barron's Previously: Capital One tumbles after earnings miss and trio of downgrades (July 24)
2015-7-20	GS	Fed finalizes capital surcharge amounts for SIFIs	JPMorgan (JPM +0.4%) faces the largest capital "surcharge" or 4.5% of its risk-weighted assets, with the other seven lenders falling in the 1-3.5% range. Citigroup's (NYSE:C) surcharge is 3.5%, BofA (NYSE:BAC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) 3%, Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) 2%, State Street (NYSE:STT) 1.5%, and Bank of New York Mellon (NYSE:BK) 1%. Taken together, the group's capital cushion will more than $200B larger than if the surcharge was not implemented. The surcharges will begin to be implemented on January 1, and fully phased in by January 2019. JPMorgan has taken steps to boost its capital levels, and Fed officials indicate the bank is about $12.5B shy of the full surcharge, reports the WSJ. The other lenders currently have the necessary capital. This new requirement comes on top of the existing base 7% common-equity capital standard necessary for most banks.
2015-7-16	GS	Goldman's Schwartz talks shop on earnings call	Macro jitters may be making the headlines, but Goldman Sachs (GS -1%) M&A bankers aren't seeing any dip in confidence from their clients, says CFO Harvey Schwartz on the earnings call. "In terms of the degree of conversations we are having, any activity levels, it feels quite good." Talking about Goldman's decision to move into online consumer and small-business banking, Schwartz takes note of a particular advantage: No legacy costs or legacy infrastructure to overcome. Commenting on Goldman's earnings, Citi's Keith Horowitz calls the quarter "noisy," but - excluding FICC (revenue down 28% Y/Y) - strong, with investment banking a notable outperformer. He rates the stock a Neutral with $210 price target. WSJ Live Blog Conference call webcast Previously: Goldman beats after backing out legal charges (July 16) Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $0.86, beats on revenue (July 16)
2015-7-16	GS	Goldman beats after backing out legal charges	Q2 net income of $1.05B or $1.98 per share vs. $2.037B and $4.10 one year ago. This year's net income includes a $1.45B or $2.77 per share charge for mortgage-related litigation and regulatory matters. Backing this out, annualized ROE was 11.5% in Q2. Investment banking revenue of $2.02B up 13% Y/Y. Financial advisory revenue of $821M up 62%. Underwriting revenue of $1.2B down 6%. Backlog slipped during quarter, but is up from last year. Institutional client services revenue of $3.6B down 6% Y/Y. FICC revenue of $1.6B down a whopping 28% from last year. Equities revenue of $2B up 24%. Investing & lending revenue of $1.8B down 13% Y/Y. Investment management revenue of $1.65B up 14% Y/Y. Operating expenses of $7.34B up 16% Y/Y (mortgage litigation), with compensation and benefits of $3.81B down 3%. Ratio of comp and benefits to revenue of 42% for H1 is down 100 bps from a year ago. CET 1 ratio of 12.5% slips 10 basis points during quarter. Tangible book value per share of $160.11 about flat from last quarter. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $0.86, beats on revenue (July 16) GS -1% premarket
2015-7-16	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $0.86, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q2 EPS of $4.75 beats by $0.86. Revenue of $9.07B (-0.5% Y/Y) beats by $290M.
2015-7-15	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ANFI, BBT, BX, C, DPZ, EBAY, FCFS, FCS, FRC, GS, HOMB, KEY, MTB, MTG, PM, PPG, PVTB, SHW, SON, TSM, TZOO, UNH, WBS, WNS
2015-7-14	GS	Earnings season kicks into high gear	The nation's largest banks report their second-quarter results this week, beginning with JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) and Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) today. Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) are due to report later in the week, along with private equity firm Blackstone (NYSE:BX) and asset manager BlackRock (NYSE:BLK). Despite the stable economy in the U.S., analysts are expecting relatively ho-hum results.
2015-7-13	GS	Goldman Sachs agrees to buy asset manager	San Francisco-based Imprint Capital has 17 employees and over $530M in AUM, and advises clients on investing based on their environmental, social, and governance views. It's the latest in a number of small deals made by Eric Lane and Tim O'Neill - co-heads of Goldman's (NYSE:GS) investment-management division - in an effort to boost revenues by more than 10% per year. The unit last year had just over $6B in revenue, or roughly 17% of the bank's total. Terms were not disclosed. Source: Bloomberg
2015-7-6	GS	Banks give living wills another try	Last year, the Fed and FDIC found most of wind-down plans submitted by twelve of the largest U.S. banks (or U.S. units of overseas banks) had numerous deficiencies, and sent the lenders back to the drawing board. The two government agencies today posted public sections of the latest versions of the living wills, and said they will begin reviewing. Feedback is expected before year-end. The lucky 12: BAC, BK, C, GS, JPM, MS, STT, UBS, WFC, BCS, CS, DB.
2015-6-24	GS	Deutsche pulls Buy ratings on Citi and Goldman	After tough starts to the year for Citigroup (NYSE:C) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), both have rebounded to produce market-beating returns year-to-date. Goldman's 12.7% advance is nearly 1K basis points ahead of the S&P 500 and 1.1K points ahead of the XLF. Citi's 6% gain is about 300 bps ahead of the S&P and 400 more than the XLF. Deutshce's Matt O'Connor downgrades both to Hold from Buy. C -0.9%, GS -0.6% premarket
2015-6-19	GS	Goldman makes key ETF hire	Ahead of what is expected to be its first issuance of ETFs later this year, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has hired iShares veteran Tony Kelly as head of product development for its ETF operation. Kelly spent 15 years at iShares - first under Barclays and then BlackRock. He left BlackRock two months ago with plans to hit the beach for awhile, before Goldman came calling. Looking to take a piece of the fast-growing $3T industry, Goldman has 11 ETFs up for regulatory approval. Source: Bloomberg
2015-6-19	GS	Goldman and Deutshce vying for Lloyds loan portfolio	At stake is a package of (mostly non-performing/defaulted) Irish real estate loans held by Lloyds (NYSE:LYG) with a face value of €4.2B. Initial offers were submitted for theProject Poseidon  portfolio - which could go for less than €0.30 on the euro  - earlier this month, with Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) facing off to be the lucky buyer, according to Bloomberg.
2015-6-19	GS	Goldman reportedly replaces JPMorgan for U.K.'s RBS job	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has been hired to replace JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) as the U.K. government's adviser for the privatization of Royal Bank of Scotland (NYSE:RBS), reports Bloomberg. JPMorgan was hired in 2013 with the expectation that the role would come up for review from time to time. The government owns about 79% of RBS. Goldman's winning of the business comes as the bank bids for more than $20B in mortgages being sold by U.K. Asset Resolution, Ltd. JPMorgan bought about $4B in mortgages from the operation late last year.
2015-6-16	GS	Jefferies' results show weak Q2 bond trading	FQ2 (ending May 31) fixed-income net revenue at Jefferies (NYSE:LUK) jumped 56% from a slow Q1, but fell 29% from a year ago. Total net revenue of $792M climbed 9.4% Y/Y. CEO Richard Handler notes fixed-income results improved each month during the quarter. Jefferies results often provide clues about how larger rivals like JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) may fare when they report their Q2s next month. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, BTO, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2015-6-15	GS	Goldman Sachs getting into consumer lending	While still in the early planning stages, Goldman (GS -0.7%) plans to go head-to-head with Main Street banks, not to mention online startups like Lending Club (LC -1.3%), Prosper, and PayPal (Pending:PYPL) to offer loans of a few thousand dollars to regular folk. Goldman's effort will also be strictly online, and it's being led by new hire Harit Talwar, who joined the bank from Discover. Fans are already looking forward to Goldman dinging ordinary Americans' credit reports, and the congressional panels and Matt Taibbi articles sure to follow. Meanwhile, Oppenheimer's Chris Kotowski questions the capital allocation decision: “I refuse to believe that hiring a couple of programmers and offering to make $15K loans online is a highly value-added banking strategy.” Source: NYT
2015-6-10	GS	Banking's winners and losers since the financial crisis	More than six years after the bottom, only four of the globe's biggest banks sport stock prices trading at a premium to book value. Leading the way is UBS at about 1.4x book. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) also trade for north of book. Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) - whose ROE of 2% is about one-tenth of what it was pre-crisis - brings up the rear at just about 0.5% of book. Barclays (NYSE:BCS) sells for roughly 0.7x book, and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) only slightly more than that. Checking further on ROE, Goldman leads the way at about 12%. Citigroup (NYSE:C) is less than 5%, but stands out as being the only bank with a higher ROE today than before the crisis. Looking at total return since the crisis, Goldman again leads the way at about 170%, with Morgan Stanley and JPMorgan a close second/third. Citigroup is the only major bank with a negative total return over that time frame. Source: Bloomberg
2015-6-5	GS	BofA and Goldman are more than rising rate stories	Cost-cutting is still a catalyst for Bank of America (BAC +2.5%), says JPMorgan's Vivek Juneja, noting the lender could add another $0.06 to annual EPS and improve its efficiency ratio by 100 basis points by cutting LAS expenses another $250M (as it plans to do). The bank has also just begun its SIM program (Simplify and Improve) to find cost savings which will free up money for growth investments. Goldman Sachs (GS +0.5%), says the team at Wells Fargo, is set to benefit from continued strength in M&A, plus potential to see greater client activity as rates rise. The bank's greater expense flexibility suggests it will maintain a healthy ROE advantage to peers. The consensus for peer ROE next year is 8.8% - for Goldman to maintain its edge, says Wells, it would need to generate a ROE of 15.4% vs. the 14.7% it posted in Q1 this year. Previously: Financials on the move as rate hike draws nearer (June 5)
2015-6-5	GS	Report: Goldman to pay $2B+ to settle mortgage claims	A deal for Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) to pay $2B-$3B to settle MBS claims could be reached with the DOJ within weeks, reports Bloomberg. The biggest players - BofA, JPMorgan, and Citigroup - cut deals last year totaling $35B in cash and consumer relief. Morgan Stanley earlier this year agreed to pay $2.6B, but that has yet to be inked.
2015-6-3	GS	Market share gains for top four U.S. equity firms	“A clear separation has emerged between the biggest brokers and the rest of the market,” says Jay Bennett of Greenwich Associates. A survey by his firm finds the top four U.S. equity brokers - Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) - are widening their market share lead over the rest of the industry. According to Greenwich, all had more than an 8% share of trading, with number five Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS) at 6.9%. Bennett calls it a segmented market composed of the big four, the rest of the bulge bracket, and a long tail of competitors with relatively smaller shares. ETFs: IAI, KCE, KBWC
2015-6-2	GS	Goldman execs: "We told you so"	For years, and as competitors were scaling back, Goldman's (GS -0.8%) top brass have argued the trading business was in a "cyclical" not "secular" lull, and - presenting today at a Deutsche financial services conference - COO Gary Cohn says recent results show they've been right all along. Presentation slides and webcast "We can grow revenue infinitely," says Cohn. "You wouldn't like the (ROE) effect of it, but we could grow revenue. We've consciously chosen to grow accretive revenue - and that's hard." Revenue from FICC has risen by 2.6 times on average in recent quarters when volatility spiked, according to Goldman's presentation. Also on stage was CFO Harvey Schwartz. The two were asked whether they are satisfied with Goldman's business mix. Cohn: "I like our business mix. You like our business mix?" Schwartz: "I like it, yeah." Cohn: "We like it." Schwartz: "I feel good about it, man." Source: Reuters
2015-5-26	GS	Charter's Rutledge: Smaller TWC tie-up should succeed in Comcast's wake	With attention already starting to shift to regulatory approval, Charter Communications (CHTR +2.5%) CEO Tom Rutledge says his company's $55B acquisition of Time Warner Cable (TWC +7.3%) will do better with the FCC than Comcast's: Think small. "If you look at the ecosystem, who we're playing with in terms of other competitors, they're very large, and we'll still be a relatively small company compared to the large phone companies, compared to Comcast, compared to the wireless companies," he told CNBC. Charter's simultaneous deal for Bright House Networks may pump up its own leverage, but it was critical to the TWC bid, says analyst Craig Moffett: Virtually debt-free Bright House and its borrowing capacity likely added as much as $18/share to Charter's $195.71/share offer. Moffett says TWC's handling of Altice's (OTC:ATCEY) counter-play was masterful. About that debt: TWC bondholders are still nervous about the combined load (While the firm's 30-year bonds rose 11.7% today, they're still down about 16% from last month). Moody's is likely to push TWC into junk rating territory as debt-to-EBITDA rises from TWC's 2.97 to about 4.79 for the combination. But again, Bright House's addition and "conservative voice on the board" may be mitigating the effects. And MoneyBeat's deal tally: Aside from big winner TWC, winners include Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), (eventually) rewarded for backing Charter, and UBS, working as sole adviser to Bright House; Losers include Comcast backer JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM), and Deutsche Bank (DB -3.4%) -- a Charter backer back when, but unseen in the new deal. Previously: Charter to merge with Time Warner Cable, buy Bright House (May. 26 2015)
2015-5-26	GS	Goldman brings on insider trading cop	Keep your friends close and your enemies closer? Goldman Sachs' (GS -0.7%) new vice president in the bank's compliance, supervision, and strategy group is FBI veteran Patrick Carroll. During Carroll's near 25-year career at the FBI, he oversaw the Bernie Madoff investigation, and helped pioneer the use of wiretaps which yielded dozens of insider trading convictions (including a leading role in the Raj Rajaratnam prosecution). “It’s really about how Goldman is reacting to the tidal wave of litigation that now seems to be part of the ongoing government toolkit for regulating banks," says NYU professor Roy Smith.  “It can help to have some people who know how government prosecutors and investigators think, some guy who has the mindset of an alligator.” Source: Bloomberg
2015-5-22	GS	FT: Ben Lawsky prepping exit present for banks	Welcome back my friends to the show that never ends ...The New York Department of Financial Services is probing more abuse of forex markets by the banks - this time by the use of automated trades driven by computer algorithms, reports the FT. Findings could indicate more widespread abuse than what U.S. and U.K. authorities disclosed on Wednesday (along with nearly $6B in fines and a number of guilty pleas). Sources remind that this week's charges related to manipulation performed by bank employees, but this probe covers electronic trading, which accounts for the majority of forex transactions. Trading platforms under the scope include those from Barclays (NYSE:BCS) and Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), and information has been subpoenaed from BNP Paribas (OTCPK:BNPQF), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and SocGen (OTCPK:SCGLY). The investigation into Barclays is the most advanced, but DFS has initially reached similar nefarious conclusions about the goings-on at Deutsche too. The probes of the other lenders are at even earlier stages. Previously: Lawsky stepping down as New York's top bank regulator (May 20)
2015-5-21	GS	Sign of the times: Goldman annual meeting in San Francisco	It was two years ago when Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) for the first time moved its annual meeting out of the NYC area, holding it in Salt Lake City to highlight one of the few areas in the country where it was adding, rather than cutting stuff. Today - looking to bolster its image in the red-hot tech sector - the bank is holding its annual meeting in San Francisco. CEO Blankfein is fond of saying Goldman is more a tech company than a blue-chip investment bank. In just the past few weeks, Goldman has hired an executive to build a digital lending platform, co-led a $50M investment in a bitcoin startup, and launched a podcast called "Exchanges at Goldman" in which Goldmanites talk about tech on Wall Street, among other things. Annual meeting webcast staring at 11:30 ET.
2015-5-15	GS	Bankers hustling to fund a Charter-TWC merger	Any talks between Charter Communications (NASDAQ:CHTR) and Time Warner Cable (NYSE:TWC) about a merger may be up in the air, but bankers won't be the bottleneck, as they're ready to talk about $25B or even more to make it happen. Following previous reports that Charter could go for $25B-$30B in debt, the cableco is talking with the same four bankers that committed $24B to Charter's early-2014 bid: Bank of America Merrill Lynch (NYSE:BAC), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS), Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). As one banker noted, "it should be quick to move to next steps, as the banks know the company pretty well," and said the package should end up as two-thirds bonds. Aside from any regulatory issues, leverage seems to be foremost on the mind of dealmakers (and investors). Liberty Broadband's (NASDAQ:LBRDA) Greg Maffei has gone public with the notion that Liberty could raise capital through rights offerings or tap $700M in cash to help with funding while maintaining its 25% stake in Charter. Other banks could join in too, which could make such a deal one of the largest junk bonds ever. Time Warner's on the edge of junk status, rated BBB/Baa2 by S&P and Moody's.
2015-5-5	GS	Goldman boosts top end of legal loss estimate	"Reasonably possible" legal expenses could be as high as $3.8B, says Goldman Sachs (GS -1.2%) in its 10-Q today. That number - it was $3B in February and $2.5B in November - is meant to track potential losses above what's already in legal reserves. What it doesn't include are possible losses rom future claims from continuing investigations. As for potential energy-related losses, Goldman slashed its credit exposure to $9.9B from $12.6B, while possible market losses fell to $300M from $805M.
2015-5-5	GS	Goldman unveils tickers and managers for upcoming ETFs	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) gets closer to its entry into the $2T ETF business, naming tickers for six "ActiveBeta" stock ETFs and five ETFs allowing exposure to hedge fund styles. Goldman Sachs ActiveBeta Emerging Markets (GEM), Europe (GSEU), International (GSIE), Japan (GSJY), U.S. Large Cap (GSLC), U.S. Small Cap (GSSC). Goldman Sachs Equity Long Short Hedge Tracker (GSLS), Event Driven (GSED), Macro (GSMC), Multi-Strategy (GSMS), Relative Value (GSRV). Source: Barron's
2015-5-4	GS	Goldman throwing in the towel on raw materials experiment	The exit (at a loss) from a Colombian gold mine which has been nothing but trouble - coming after sales of power plants and an aluminum-storage business - would mark the end of Goldman Sach's (NYSE:GS) involvement in raw material production, reports the WSJ. Alongside the losses, of course, is D.C.'s fixation on bank risk, not to mention the potential conflicts of interest arising from banks producing commodities along with making markets to trade them.
2015-5-1	GS	Readying for IPO, Univision posts Q1 net loss	With plans (but not detailed plans, yet) to go public, Spanish-language broadcaster Univision swung to a $139.7M net loss in Q1, from a year-ago profit of $6.2M. The company hired Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) to lead an IPO that it hopes will raise $1B, which would value the broadcaster around $20B. Revenues were up 0.6% to $624.7M. Univision blamed its loss on termination fees that it owed to the private-equity owners of its parent, Univision Communications, as well as to Grupo Televisa (NYSE:TV). Televisa used convertible debt to build a 38% stake in Univision and has the right to take that to 40%, so it is set to draw a payoff from Univision's eventual offering. It also drew a record $314M rebroadcasting royalty from Univision in 2014.
2015-4-24	GS	Comcast, TWC move higher premarket on merger's end	Comcast (NASDAQ:CMCSA) is trading up 1.3% premarket, and Time Warner Cable (NYSE:TWC) is 0.8% higher as well, after confirmation that their $45B merger deal is dead. In statements by the Justice Dept. and FCC thanking each other for their cooperation, it's clear that FCC Chairman Tom Wheeler was against the deal, which would have made agency approval a very long shot. It's also clear why Wheeler was opposed: It's about broadband, not cable, and protecting the burgeoning streaming video market. "The proposed merger would have posed an unacceptable risk to competition and innovation especially given the growing importance of high-speed broadband to online video and innovative new services." While Comcast doesn't pay a breakup fee with the deal's end, that doesn't mean everyone walks away cheaply: Advisers including bankers and lawyers will lose out on $380M in fees, chiefly Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), banker for Charter Communications (NASDAQ:CHTR). J.P. Morgan Chase (NYSE:JPM) will drop from second to third in the league tables. As a mitigating factor, more deals are likely on the way, though. Other sector players premarket: AT&T -0.3%; Verizon -0.2%.
2015-4-23	GS	Goldman Sachs Asset Management agrees to buy Pacific Global Advisors	The asset management arm of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) looks to boost its investment outsourcing solutions business with the purchase of Pacific Global Advisors, a subsidiary of Pacific Life Insurance. PGA's solutions business has assets under supervision of more than $18B. As part of the deal, key members of PGA's management team will join GSAM, and the deal should close by mid-year.
2015-4-21	GS	Goldman Sachs buys stake in vendor to HFT outfits	Perseus is among a small number of companies providing high-frequency trading firms with the networks necessary to operate by transmitting data between exchanges using microwave towers. The company now also counts gaming and media companies, exchange operators, and banks among its clientele, and Goldman's (NYSE:GS) $20.5M investment will help accelerate a rollout of services to 25 new locations.
2015-4-17	GS	Goldman downgraded on valuation at KBW	Noting the strong run for the stock headed into Q1 results, analyst Brian Kleinhanzl says he didn't see anything in the report which would warrant boosting 2016 estimates materially higher. "We do not believe that a larger premium to forward book value is warranted at this time since the volatility of Goldman's (GS -1.2%) earnings is still high and visibility into forward earnings [is] low." The rating is cut to Market Perform from Outperform, though the price target is boosted to $210 from $195. The stock advanced 5.3% in the two weeks headed into yesterday's earnings release, and is up 11% over the last three months. Previously: Goldman call: Will strong trends continue? (April 16) Previously: Goldman up 1% early after earnings beat (April 16)
2015-4-17	GS	Goldman, Morgan Stanley go head to head in equities trade	Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) blockbuster performance in stock trading last quarter has some Wall Street watchers speculating whether it beat rival Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) out of the top spot in equities. Goldman was head-and-shoulders above Morgan Stanley for many years in stock trading, but recently the latter gained ground: Morgan Stanley's 2014 stock-trading revenue surpassed Goldman's for the first time in at least a decade. Analysts have cautioned that while Goldman had a good quarter, broader challenges, such as electronic trading and tighter regulation, still exist. Investors will see whether Morgan Stanley's crown will fall next week.
2015-4-16	GS	Goldman call: Will strong trends continue?	Is this just another Q1 bump and then things return to lower levels, asks Mike Mayo on the Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) earnings call, wanting to know how sustainable the strong trends seen last quarter are. Mayo notes the investment banking backlog is already lower than it was three months ag. We talk to CEOs every day, says Goldman CFO Harvey Schwartz, and - at least in investment banking - the positive trend looks to remain in place. As for trading, he says, it's still too early in the quarter to know for sure. Having bid up the shares strongly in advance of earnings, investors today are selling the news. The stock is lower by 1% in morning action. Previously: Goldman up 1% early after earnings beat (April 16)
2015-4-16	GS	Goldman Sachs declares $0.65 dividend	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) hiked its quarterly dividend by 8.3% to $0.65/share, resulting in an annual yield of 1.29%. The dividend will be payable on June 29, to shareholders on record of June 1. Prior: Goldman Sachs boosts dividend by 8.3% after CCAR
2015-4-16	GS	Goldman up 1% early after earnings beat	Q1 net earnings of $2.748B or $5.94 per share vs. $1.949B and $4.02 one year ago. Investment Banking revenues of $1.91B up 7% from a year ago. FInancial advisory revenue of $961M up 41%. Underwriting revenue of $944M down 14%, reflecting significant slowing in debt underwriting from a year ago. Institutional Client Services revenue of $5.46B up 23% Y/Y. FICC revenue of $3.13B up 10%, thanks to big gains in currencies and interest rate products, offset by lower action in credit, commodities, and mortgages. Investing & Lending revenue of $1.67B up 9% Y/Y. Investment Management revenue of $1.58B roughly unchanged from a year ago. Expenses of $6.68B up 6% Y/Y. Compensation and benefits expense of $4.46B up 11%. Ratio of comp and benefits to revenue of 42% down 100 bps Y/Y. Total staff up 1% during Q1. Quarterly dividend is lifted to $0.65 per share from $0.60. 6.8M shares repurchased during quarter. Another 18.6M shares remain under existing buyback program. Tangible book value per share of $159.11 up 3% for quarter. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $1.68, beats on revenue (April 16) GS +1% premarket
2015-4-16	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $1.68, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q1 EPS of $5.94 beats by $1.68. Revenue of $10.62B (+13.8% Y/Y) beats by $1.27B. Shares +1.7% PM.
2015-4-15	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ADS, BLK, BX, C, FCFS, FCS, FRC, GS, GWW, HOMB, KEY, PBCT, PM, PPG, PVTB, SHW, SON, TSM, TZOO, UNH, WBS
2015-4-15	GS	Goldman touches seven-year high ahead of earnings	Continuing a big run started at the end of January (up 11%) - with the latest catalyst the fast Q1 trading results at JPMorgan - Goldman Sachs (GS +2.1%) crosses the $200 per share mark for the first time since 2008 just before the Bear Stearns collapse. Goldman is expected to post a profit a $4.13 per share for Q1 vs. $3.49 one year ago, with first quarter trading revenue expected to increase for the first time in five years.
2015-4-14	GS	JPMorgan earnings bode well for Goldman, Morgan Stanley	Fast action at JPMorgan's trading and investment banking businesses helped the bank to consensus-beating Q1 results. The Corporate & Investment bank posted revenue of $9.58B in Q1, up 8% from a year ago and up 30% from Q4. Trading revenue of $5.67B gained 9% Y/Y, with a 4.5% rise in bond-trading revenue and a 22% increase in equity-trading revenue. M&A advisory revenue got off to its best start ever, up 42% from a year ago and 25% from Q4. Goldman Sachs (GS +1.1%) reports on Thursday and Morgan Stanley (MS +1.4%) on Monday. Previously: JPMorgan earnings call: Optimism on FICC (April 14) Previously: "Robust" activity in FICC leads strong quarter at JPMorgan (April 14)
2015-4-13	GS	Reuters: Goldman Sachs near sale of Italian NPL business	D.E. Shaw has begun exclusive talks to buy the Italian NPL business of Goldman (NYSE:GS) real estate unit Archon, according to Reuters. Shaw will have about two weeks to agree to deal to purchase a €2B portfolio of Italian NPLs as well as the platform and staff to manage it. The potential deal illustrates hedge funds' growing appetite for Italian assets as reform efforts gain traction and the economy shows signs of recovering, as well as banks' lessening appetite to hold capital-intensive paper.
2015-4-10	GS	Goldman Sachs sets targets for execs to earn full pay	Half of CEO Lloyd Blankfein's, COO Gary Cohn's, and CFO Harvey Schwartz's stock awards for 2014 will come with strings attached, reports the FT. To get full pay on these "performance stock units," Goldman (NYSE:GS) will have to report an ROE of 11% between 2015 and 2017. A separate program would award Blankfein a $10.5M bonus were Goldman to hit an ROE of 12%. It's a "backdoor" way for Goldman to set a profitability goal, says Mike Mayo, who has pressed the bank to set an official target. When Goldman went public in 1999, it earned an ROE of over 30%, and returns of more than 20% were the norm prior the financial crisis. Those salad days are over and done with, and anything in the double-digits makes a banker a rock star today.
2015-4-9	GS	Blankfein's bet on bond trading pays off	While the rest of Wall Street responded to the steep drop in FICC action over the past few years by cutting back, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) didn't waver. This quarter, the bank is expected to post a 7% increase in FICC revenue while its three major U.S. competitors are forecast to show declines, allowing Goldman its largest market share in four years. “This is the quarter to really test that theory out and see: Has their commitment to the business paid off," says KBW's Brian Kleinhanzi. Helping trading revenue is a nice bit of action at the central banks, where the ECB launched QE this quarter and the Fed set a course towards rate hikes later this year. Source: Bloomberg's Michael Moore
2015-4-6	GS	Canada to exit GM stake, selling 73M shares to Goldman Sachs	General Motors (NYSE:GM) is down 1.5% after hours as Canada's government says it will exit its position in the U.S. automaker by selling more than 73M shares to Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). Investment arm Canada GEN will provide further details once the trade is reported with regulators in both countries. The sale is an unregistered block trade that wraps on Friday, April 10. GM common stock closed today at $36.66, making the transaction amount to some $2.7B.
2015-4-1	GS	JMP: Goldman and Morgan Stanley need cheaper valuations or better growth to be buys	Noting both Goldman Sachs (GS +0.9%) and Morgan Stanley (MS +0.6%) have underperformed the broader markets YTD, JMP's Devin Ryan expects gains going forward, but not enough to make him a buyer yet. For Q1, Ryan says Goldman looks set to report the better quarter relative to expectations, but both should have good enough results to support current valuations. However, at about 1.2x tangible book value, Ryan isn't seeing a lot of room for multiple expansion. "We continue to look for either more dislocated valuations or signs of earnings expansion above our current expectations, to potentially become more constructive on shares at the large cap investment banks." Source: Barron's
2015-3-31	GS	Goldman partially exits stake in Associated British Ports	Along with Prudential Plc, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) agrees to sell at least 30% of Associated British Ports to the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board and Hermes Infrastructure for $2.4B. The deal is expected to close this summer and could include another 3.3% of the company. Associated British Ports owns and operates 21 ports in the U.K.
2015-3-27	GS	JPMorgan holds on to top investment banking spot	Despite its revenues falling 6%, JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) retained its crown as the top performing investment bank in 2014, according to industry analytics firm Coalition. JPMorgan reaped $22B from investment banking last year, compared with $23.3B in 2013. Other U.S. banks also continued to dominate top spots, with Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) coming second overall across investment banking, and Citigroup (NYSE:C) and BofA (NYSE:BAC) sharing third place with Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB).
2015-3-26	GS	Pleasant surprise may be in store in bank earnings in April	The big banks have had a rough start to the year, but surging trading volume in bonds, currencies, and commodities in Q1 could make for pleasant surprises when the lenders report quarterly results next month, writes John Carney. The average daily trading volume across all U.S. bonds was up 10.6% Y/Y through the end of February, according to Sifma, with trading in corporate bonds up 18.1%, driven by a big rise in issuance. Trading in Fannie, Freddie, and Ginnie MBS was up 35.3% from a year ago. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) could be a particular beneficiary, as about 25% of its revenue is generated by FICC, and Credit Suisse sees the bank posting its first year-over-year increase in that unit's revenue since 2009. Others of interest: Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Citigroup (NYSE:C), and JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM). ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2015-3-26	GS	Abacus lawsuit rises again at Goldman	ACA Financial Guaranty sued Goldman (NYSE:GS) in 2011 alleging the bank tricked it into insuring the Abacus CDO, representing John Paulson as taking a long position, when in fact the hedge funder was short. A state judge allowed the suit to go forward in 2012, but an appeals court reversed the ruling in 2013. ACA has now asked NY's Supreme Court to reinstate the lawsuit. Goldman in 2010 settled with the SEC over Abacus for $550M. ACA is seeking $120M.
2015-3-26	GS	Credit Suisse lifts Goldman estimates	Decoupling of global monetary policy continues to drive dispersion in markets and opportunities for trading businesses to monetize client flows," say Credit Suisse's Christian Bolu and Susan Katzke, expecting healthy Q1 results from the brokerage industry. They also note the "digestion" of sizable M&A backlogs will provide a boost to earnings. The team boosts its Q1 EPS estimate for Goldman Sachs (GS -0.3%) to $4.30 from $4.16, and see Q1 year-over-year FICC growth for the first time since 2009. ROE should be an industry-leading 11%. They'll also be looking for management earnings call commentary surrounding capital plans. The target price of $225 is 1.3x book value and 12x 2016 estimated earnings. Morgan Stanley (MS -0.2%), however, rates just a Neutral as core trading revenues will be lower Y/Y thanks to elevated commodities revenue a year ago.
2015-3-23	GS	Bloomberg: Big changes mulled for China's securities industry	In what could be a big boon for overseas banks doing business in China, Beijing is mulling sweeping changes for the securities industry which would include allowing foreign banks controlling stakes in their local joint ventures, reports Bloomberg. The looser restrictions would let players like Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS), Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), and Citigroup (NYSE:C) compete more effectively with dominant incumbents like Citic Securities. Current rules approved in 2012 allow overseas banks to just 49% ownership of securities firms. Prior to that, the limit was 33%. The above-listed banks have all entered the market since 2007.
2015-3-19	GS	Potential blow to Goldman and Morgan Stanley as Tarullo suggests ditching commodity exemption	“It would be very much worth considering treating those two firms” like other banks, says Fed governor Daniel Tarullo, speaking to the Senate Banking committee. At issue is a clause in 1999's Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (that era's version of Dodd-Frank) which "grandfathered" in any commodity trading and investment activities for investment banks who later converted to BHCs, i.e.Goldman Sachs (GS -1.1%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -2.1%).
2015-3-19	GS	WSJ: Banks struggling to unload energy loans	Citigroup (NYSE:C), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and UBS are among the large lenders facing millions in losses on energy loans made last year. The lenders intended to sell the paper, but have had difficulty doing so even after cutting prices. "We've been pretty shy about dipping back into energy names," says a loan-portfolio manager at DoubleLine, summing up the industry attitude. It's a sizable setback for Wall Street (not to mention energy companies whose financing has dried up), which has earned $31B in energy company-related fees over the last five years, according to Dealogic. Shades of the mortgage crisis? Not even close, say investors, as banks at the end of the housing bubble held hundreds of billions of dollars of souring mortgages and corporate paper on their books. Source: WSJ ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2015-3-19	GS	Allianz hedges CPIC stake through $700M Goldman deal	Allianz (OTCQX:AZSEY) has struck a deal with Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) to help it hedge part of its stake in China Pacific Insurance Group (OTCPK:CHPXY) and lock in profits from two rounds of investments that it made in China's third-largest insurer. Under the deal, Allianz agreed to a future sale of 147.7M Hong Kong-traded shares of CPIC at HK$36.77 each to Goldman in a $700M transaction. That price is equivalent to a 4.2% discount to CPIC's closing price on Wednesday.
2015-3-18	GS	Goldman prices lending unit's shares	Shares of Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) business-development company are set to begin trading on the NYSE under ticker symbol "GSBD", after the bank priced 6M shares of its specialty lending arm at $20 apiece, raising $120M. Business-development companies are seen as particularly advantageous to banks because they operate with few of the restrictions that regulators have recently placed on financial institutions engaged in risky or leveraged lending practices. Other banks that have launched BDCs include Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.
2015-3-17	GS	Investment banks mull poor Jefferies results	A possible harbinger of things to come next month when the big banks report Q1 earnings, profits at Jefferies plunged in FQ1 (ended Feb. 28), with FICC, capital markets, and investment banking particularly weak. Previously: Poor results at Jefferies sinks Leucadia (March 17) Jefferies parent Leucadia is lower by 3.7%. Goldman Sachs (GS -1.1%), Morgan Stanley (MS -0.9%), JPMorgan (JPM -1.2%), Citigroup (C -0.1%), Bank of America (BAC -0.8%). ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2015-3-17	GS	Asset management becomes a growth center at Goldman	Goldman Sach's (NYSE:GS) investment management unit is the bank's smallest division and generated only half as much revenue in 2014 as the rival unit at JPMorgan did, writes Michael Moore in Bloomberg. It's also struggled to make money for clients, including one hedge fund that lost 40% in 2007, another which had to be rescued, and mutual funds whose returns trailed those of peers. Led by Eric Lane and Timothy O'Neill, a turnaround is at work, and revenues jumped 11% last year on $111B of new assets. Two team predict growth will remain in the double-digits for the foreseeable future, helped by what they believe is an inevitable shift back to actively managed funds. Goldman needs the growth to make up for declines in, say, trading profits. The unit accounted for 17% of bank revenue and 11% of profit in 2014, up from 10% and 5% in 2009. Another bonus: With more of bank profit coming from what's perceived as steadier asset management, investors just might be willing to pay a higher multiple on those earnings. Macquarie's David Konrad: "[Goldman]'s so reliant on quarter-to-quarter market activity, and that hurts its multiple. If investment management can grow to more than 20 percent, that helps the visibility of earnings and helps the multiple.”
2015-3-12	GS	MKM's scorecard for five big banks after CCAR results	Citigroup's (C +2.7%) $7.8B in buybacks was 10% higher than estimated by MKM analyst David Trone. Combined with the nickel dividend, that's total shareholder returns of $8.4B vs. his $7B expectation. Bank of America (BAC -1%) - though given just conditional approval - is set for $4B in buybacks and a nickel dividend. That's a total return of $6.1B vs. Trone's $3.1B estimate. Trone notes the bank can proceed with its buyback prior to resubmitting plans. JPMorgan's (JPM +1%) $6.4B buyback was shy of Trone's $7B estimate, but the 10% dividend increase was better than forecast. The total capital return of $12.9B vs. his $13.2B forecast is a "marginal negative." The dividend hike to $0.65 at Goldman (GS +2.1%) beat Trone's expectation of $0.62. As for the buyback, Goldman's policy of not disclosing the amount remains in place. Morgan Stanley's (MS +4.5%) capital return of $4.3B is more than double Trone's $1.9B estimate. Source: Benzinga
2015-3-11	GS	Goldman Sachs boosts dividend by 8.3% after CCAR	Forced to resubmit its capital return plan after coming too close to the 5% minimum capital threshold, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) announces its intention to boost its quarterly payout to $0.65 per share from 0.60. The bank was also green-lighted for buybacks, but hasn't yet disclosed a number on that. Shares +0.5% after hours Previously: More CCAR: Goldman, Morgan Stanley, and JPMorgan pass after resubmissions (March 11)
2015-3-11	GS	More CCAR: Goldman, Morgan Stanley, and JPMorgan pass after resubmissions	Goldman's Sachs' (NYSE:GS) first score of 5.8% was only marginally ahead of the 5% threshold, but the resubmitted capital plan came in at 6.4% Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) was 5.9% on both tests, so one wonders what changed. The company has announced a $3.1B buyback through the end of 2016 Q2 as well as a boost in the quarterly dividend to $0.15 per share from $0.10. JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) lifted its score from a barely scraping by 5% to 5.5%. There's no word yet on the details of Goldman's or JPMorgan's plans. GS +0.9%, MS +1.8%, JPM +0.1% after hours. Previously: BofA must resubmit capital plan; Deutsche and Santander rejected (March 11) CCAR results
2015-3-11	GS	Goldman Sachs BDC files for IPO	The middle-market lending unit of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) will sell 6M shares in its IPO, and list on the Big Board under the symbol GSBD. The underwriter greenshoe is for another 900K shares. Proceeds will be used to pay down debt. As of year-end, GSBD had 45 investments in 34 portfolio companies with an aggregate fair value $913.95M. Prospectus
2015-3-10	GS	Reuters: Univision hires underwriters to prepare $1B IPO	Spanish-language megabroadcaster Univision has tapped Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) to lead its initial public offering, Reuters reports. Univision is currently owned by Univision Communications (owned by private-equity partners), and an IPO that could come in the second half could bring $1B and value the company at as much as $20B. The broadcaster was previously rumored to be a takeover target for the likes of CBS and Time Warner.
2015-3-9	GS	Goldman quickly looking to monetize Hastings investment	Hastings is one of the U.K.'s largest motor insurance providers and Goldman Sachs' (GS +0.3%) merchant banking arm purchased just under a 50% stake less than two years ago in a deal valuing the company at £700M. According to Sky News, the company is looking to hire advisors for a sale or IPO which would value Hastings at close to £1B. Hastings has seen rapid growth under CEO Gary Hoffman, with customer numbers of 1.65M at the end of September up from 1.35M a year earlier. Previously: Goldman buys 50% of U.K. auto insurer (Oct. 8, 2013)
2015-3-5	GS	Stress test roundup: How the lenders stack up vs. last year	The minimum Tier 1 common capital ratio for banks is 5%, according to the Fed, and here's how the 31 lenders stacked up under the central bank's severely adverse scenario vs. a year ago (h/t: WSJ): Deutshce Bank (NYSE:DB): 34.7%, not tested a year ago DIscover (NYSE:DFS): 13.9% vs. 13.2% a year ago Bank of New York Mellon (NYSE:BK): 12.6% vs. 13.1% American Express (NYSE:AXP): 12.5% vs. 12.1% Northern Trust (NASDAQ:NTRS): 12.3% vs. 11.7% State Street (NYSE:STT): 11.8% vs. 13.3% Citizens Financial (NYSE:CFG): 10.7% vs. 10.7% KeyCorp (NYSE:KEY): 9.9% vs. 9.2% Capital One (NYSE:COF): 9.5% vs. 7.8% PNC Financial (NYSE:PNC): 9.5% vs. 9% Santander Holdings USA (SAN's U.S. unit): 9.4% vs. 7.3%; shares +0.8% after hours BMO Financial (BMO's U.S. unit): 9% vs. 7.6% Comerica (NYSE:CMA): 9% vs. 8.6% Huntington Bancshares (NASDAQ:HBAN): 9% vs. 7.4% HSBC North America (NYSE:HSBC): 8.9% vs. 6.6% U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB): 8.5% vs. 8.2% Regions Financial (NYSE:RF): 8.3% vs. 8.9% Citigroup (NYSE:C): 8.2% vs. 7.2% SunTrust (NYSE:STI): 8.2% vs. 8.8% BB&T (NYSE:BBT): 8.1% vs. 8.4% MUFG Americas Holdings (NYSE:MTU): 8% vs. 8.1% Ally Financial (NYSE:ALLY): 7.9% vs. 6.3% Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ:FITB): 7.9% vs. 8.4% Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC): 7.5% vs. 8.2% M&T Bank (NYSE:MTB): 7.3% vs. 6.2% Bank of America (NYSE:BAC): 7.1% vs. 5.9%; shares +2.1% after hours JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM): 6.5% vs. 6.3% BBVA Compass (NYSE:BBVA): 6.3% vs. 8.5% Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): 6.3% vs. 6.9% Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS): 6.2% vs. 6.1% Zions Bancorp (NASDAQ:ZION): 5.1% vs. 3.6%; shares -1.7% after hours The lenders were also informed today whether their capital return plans would put them below the Fed's 5% threshold, giving them a 6-day window with which to change those requests, if need be. Last year, both BofA and Goldman scaled back their dividend/buyback requests, allowing them to pass the CCAR. This year's CCAR results will be announced on Wednesday. 2015 Stress Test Methodology and Results
2015-3-5	GS	All pass the stress test, but some cut it close	2015 stands as the first year since the stress tests started in 2009 that all banks maintained necessary capital levels under the severe adverse scenario, though Zions Bancorp (NASDAQ:ZION) just squeaked by with a Tier 1 capital ratio of 5.1% vs. the 5% minimum. Citigroup's (NYSE:C) ratio of 8.2% easily passed. Another measure more relevant to those banks active in capital markets is total risk-based capital, and Goldman Sachs(NYSE:GS) at 8.1% and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) at 8.6% were just north of the minimum 8% required. In aggregate, the 31 banks subject to the test showed capital ratios falling to 8.2% under the severe adverse scenario vs. 5.5% in 2009, and against the 5% minimum allowed. Previously: All 31 lenders pass the stress test (March 5) Stress Test 2015 Methodology and Results ZION -0.6%, GS -0.7%, MS -0.9%, C -0.55% after hours.
2015-3-4	GS	Aluminum price-fixing suits against JPMorgan and Goldman thrown out	According to a tweet from CNBC, JPMorgan (JPM -0.5%) and Goldman Sachs (GS -0.8%) have won dismissal of U.S. aluminum price-fixing lawsuits. An earlier story, had a U.S. judge also throwing out claims against the LME and Glencore. Previously: Goldman, JPMorgan seek dismissal of aluminum price-fixing suits (April 23, 2014)
2015-3-2	GS	More M&A shakeup at Goldman	A 16-year veteran at Goldman (NYSE:GS), Gordon Dyal was global M&A head from 2004-2011, and has been co-chairman of the investment-banking division since. Also exiting is Jim Katzman, the head of the bank's west coast M&A business. He's been with Goldman for 17 years. Last week, it was announced that Gene Sykes - co-head of global M&A - was being kicked upstairs to become co-chairman of the group, with two others coming in to join Gregg Lemkau as his new co-heads. Previously: Goldman shakes up M&A leadership (Feb. 26) Previously: Goldman Sachs cutting Singapore investment bank jobs (March 2)
2015-3-2	GS	Goldman Sachs cutting Singapore investment bank jobs	The reductions go beyond the normal annual culling of underperformers and about 15 are leaving or have left the investment banking group there since the start of the year, reports Bloomberg - roughly 30% of the team. Among them are Goldman's (NYSE:GS) head of Southeast Asia M&A and the Singapore-based managing director. In this, Goldman is joining a number of other banks in cutting back amid tougher regulation, higher capital requirements, and slower deal flow - equity deals in the region fell to $24.1B last year from $36.6B a year earlier. For Goldman, performance in Southeast Asia (10th place last year) has lagged its broader Asia-Pacific performance (2nd place).
2015-2-26	GS	Goldman shakes up M&A leadership	Goldman Sachs (GS +0.3%) names Michael Carr and Gilberto Pozzi as new co-heads of the M&A group at the bank. They'll join current co-head Gregg Lemkau, and the other current co-head Gene Sykes - after 31 years with the bank - is being moved upstairs to become co-chairman of Global M&A, alongside three others. Carr was most recently head of M&A in the Americas, and Pozzi head of EMEA M&A. Goldman is #1 in the global M&A rankings so far this year, according to Dealogic, a position it's held since 2011.
2015-2-26	GS	Morgan Stanley removes overhand with mortgage settlement	"Most of the major legacy legal issues are now in the rearview mirror for Morgan Stanley (MS -1.2%)," says UBS analyst Brennan Hawken, following the bank's $2.6B mortgage settlement with the DOJ last night. He notes the bank isn't a rate-setter for Libor and its forex business is minor, so fines related to those probes should be small relative to what some peers are facing. The only major U.S. firm left to settle over mortgages is Goldman Sachs (GS -0.1%), and while the timing is unknown, it's probable Goldman's fine will be similar in magnitude to Morgan Stanley rather than the far larger penalties dealt to the money center banks. Previously: Morgan Stanley to settle DoJ civil probe for $2.6B (Feb. 25)
2015-2-24	GS	Big banks face U.S. probe over metal pricing	U.S. officials are probing at least 10 major banks for the possible rigging of precious-metals markets, even though European regulators shelved a similar investigation after finding no evidence of wrongdoing, WSJ reports. The DOJ is scrutinizing the price-setting process for gold, silver, platinum and palladium in London, while the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has opened a civil investigation. Banks under scrutiny: HSBC, BNS, BCS, CS, DB, GS, JPM, OTCPK:SCGLY, OTCPK:SGBLY, UBS
2015-2-23	GS	Goldman Sachs boosts legal loss estimate	The top end of "reasonably possible" legal losses - an amount above what's already been reserved for - is now about $3B vs. roughly $2.5B three months ago, according to Goldman's (NYSE:GS) 10-K. This amount does not include future claims from continuing investigations into MBS. Goldman Sachs 10-K
2015-2-20	GS	Wall Street sees head count drop	Squeezed by new capital and risk rules and tough markets, Wall Street is taking the ax to its workforce, a report by London research firm Coalition shows. The number of investment bankers, traders, salespeople and research analysts at the world’s largest banks has fallen 20% globally since its recent peak in 2010. While job cuts on the front end have become standard, firms have been increasing their back-office hiring to beef up controls in areas ranging from compliance to risk. Related tickers: BAC, BCS, OTCQX:BNPQY, C, CS, DB, GS, JPM, MS, UBS
2015-2-11	GS	Goldman names new investment banking services chairman	Media and telecommunications rainmaker Andrew Gordon will become global chairman of investment banking services, replacing John Waldron who now co-heads Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) investment bank, according to a memo seen by Bloomberg. His team will fill out the rest of the slots below him. With the slump in trading revenue, Goldman and its competitors are relying more on M&A deals to pick up the slack, and Goldman was the top adviser on mergers last year, and well as the #1 equity underwriter.
2015-2-10	GS	Goldman makes its case at conference	"We are not simple, but we are simpler," says Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%) CEO Lloyd Blankfein, presenting at the Credit Suisse Financial Services Forum. Webcast and presentation slides Taking a shot at his bank's rivals, Blankfein says Goldman is producing better and more stable returns. He notes BofA, Citi, JPMorgan, and Morgan Stanley have average head counts of 190K - equally split between retail and institutional businesses - vs. just 34K at Goldman. Goldman management, of course, is frustrated that the Street is buying the restructuring story at places like Morgan Stanley, but not necessarily at his firm - over the last three years, Morgan is up 52% vs. 22% for Goldman even as Morgan's ROE continues to lag.
2015-2-10	GS	Lawsky expands forex probe to more banks	The NY Department of Financial Services has sent subpoenas to Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS), BNP Paribas (BNZPY) and Societe General (OTCPK:SCGLY), Reuters reports, expanding its probe of whether banks' electronic trading platforms allow them to front-run clients in the forex market. At issue is a latency period between the time an offer is floated and accepted. The department is already probing Barclays (NYSE:BCS) and Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB) over similar concerns and installed monitors at those banks in recent months.
2015-2-4	GS	Goldman working on Irish bank deal for free	"It's common practice seemingly, particularly in the city of London, that finance houses like Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) feel that their reputation is enhanced for other work if they're the advisers to sovereign governments for key pieces of work," says Irish Finance Minister Michael Noonan, whose government appointed the bank to advise on the sale of Allied Irish Banks. Irish taxpayers spent about $24B rescuing the lender during the financial crisis.
2015-1-29	GS	MKM Partners: January tumble leaves bulge-bracket names cheap again	"We certainly recognize all the headwinds, notably on the regulatory capital side, but low-hanging fruit on capital efficiency actions should drive some ROE improvement," says the team of David Trone and Pankaj Chitrakar, and they expect better CCAR outcomes for at least a few of the names (including Citi, one would think) in a few weeks. As for operating results, whether they come in good or not so good this year hinges on whether the Fed hikes or not. That forecast sounds a lot like 2014, 2013, and 2012, but the two note the likelihood of higher rates appears far higher this year. They maintain Buy ratings on Citigroup (C +0.1%), Morgan Stanley (MS +1%), Goldman Sachs (GS +1%), Bank of America (BAC +0.7%), and JPMorgan (JPM +1.1%), with Citi, Goldman, and Morgan Stanley their top picks. Previously: Financials go on sale in January (Jan. 24)
2015-1-16	GS	Goldman talks shop during earnings call	"Volatility in the absence of liquidity" creates an "unfriendly" dynamic, says Goldman (GS -1.8%) CFO Harvey Schwartz, on the Q4 trading environment. His comments echo those coming from Bank of America and Citigroup following weak FICC action at those banks. Goldman's FICC revenue in Q4 of $1.218B fell 29% from a year earlier. The bank, says Schwartz, didn't suffer from the Swiss franc's move yesterday, but it was "pretty extraordinary," he allows. Meanwhile, the WSJ's Michael Moore looks at compensation costs at the bank. As a percentage of revenue, they fell again in 2014 to just over 35%, about 1000 basis points lower than the pre-crisis average. "Is this the new normal?" Previously: Weak underwriting, trading slow Goldman results (Jan. 16) Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $0.06, beats on revenue (Jan. 16)
2015-1-16	GS	Weak underwriting, trading slow Goldman results	Q4 net income of $2.17B or $4.38 per share vs. $4.60 one year ago. Annualized ROE of 11.1% in Q4. Investment Banking revenue of $1.44B down 16% Y/Y. Financial advisory revenue of $692M up 18%, Equity underwriting $342M down 45%, Debt underwriting $406M down 21%. Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.149B down 8% Y/Y. FICC revenue of $1.218B down 29%. Investing & Lending revenue of $1.532B down 26% Y/Y. Investment Management revenue of $1.567B down 2% Y/Y. Compensation and Benefits expenses of $1.955B down 11% Y/Y. Non-compensation expenses of $2.523B down 17%, in part thanks to lower legal charges. 6.6M shares repurchased during quarter for $1.25B. Another 25.4M shares remain under buyback program. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $0.06, beats on revenue (Jan. 16) GS -0.7% premarket
2015-1-16	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $0.06, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q4 EPS of $4.38 beats by $0.06. Revenue of $7.69B (-12.4% Y/Y) beats by $50M. Shares -0.61% PM.
2015-1-15	GS	Notable earnings before Friday’s open	CMA, GS, PNC, PVTB, STI, WIT
2015-1-14	GS	Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley investors mull JPMorgan results	There could be downside risk to Goldman Sachs (GS -2.7%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -2.7%) numbers, warns Credit Suisse's Christian Bolu, noting FICC revenue at JPMorgan of $2.5B missed his estimate by about $200M. JPM management suggested performance was weaker in credit and securitized products, but forex and emerging markets saw strength, and Bolu notes Goldman's and Morgan Stanley's trading arms tend to be skewed more towards credit and less toward currencies and emerging markets. On the other hand, says the team at KBW, JPMorgan's stock trading results were good, which should be a positive for Morgan Stanley and Goldman, given their focus on equities. KBW suggests investors focus on investment banking results overall, rather than get too mired in the unit's various components.
2014-12-31	GS	Data shows hefty Goldman salaries	Far exceeding payouts at other leading banks, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) paid its top 121 London bankers about £3M pounds ($4.7M) on average last year. Bankers' pay in Britain remains a hot topic, with many shareholders voicing criticism, after large bonuses were blamed for encouraging risk-taking and contributing to the financial crisis.
2014-12-30	GS	Goldman in fight over $835M loan to failed Portuguese bank	In a story sure to bring back memories of the Bernanke/Paulson/Geithner AIG rescue, the Bank of Portugal is daring to go where that power trio feared to tread - forcing Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) to take a loss on a boner of an investment. At issue is a $835M loan made to Banco Espirito Santo weeks before the lender's  collapse. The loan late this summer was transferred to Novo Banco, the "good bank" carved out of Banco Espirito - so far, so good for Goldman. The Bank of Portugal last week, however, decided the transfer was a mistake and the loan should instead remain at the "bad bank." The decision means Goldman and its clients stand to lose hundreds of millions of dollars because assets at the bad bank are expected to be essentially zero at liquidation. Goldman: “Absent the central bank’s reconsidering its position in light of the damage it will be causing to our clients and financial markets, we plan on pursuing all appropriate remedies.” Source: WSJ
2014-12-23	GS	Visa doubled the work of any other stock in sparking Dow's drive to 18K	The Dow Jones Industrials closed above 18,000 today for the first time ever, and one stock - Visa (NYSE:V), which contributed nearly twice the point gain of runner-up Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) - deserves by far the most credit for sparking the 1,000-point advance from 17,000 in July. Visa rallied 23% during the 120 trading days, meaning it contributed 313 points to the Dow's climb, with about half coming on a single day, Oct. 30, when the stock jumped 10% following better than expected quarterly results. Part of Visa’s Dow dominance is due to its size in the price-weighted index; other companies that rose more than Visa since the Dow crossed 17,000 in July - such as Home Depot (NYSE:HD), which jumped 26% and boosted the Dow by 139 points - accounted for fewer points of the Dow’s rise.
2014-12-23	GS	Goldman sells metals warehousing business to Reuben Brothers	As Wall Street investment banks continue to retreat from physical commodities, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has sold its metal-warehouse unit, Metro International Trade Services, to Swiss P-E firm Reuben Brothers. Last month, Goldman also came under political and regulatory pressure to divest the operation amid allegations it had encouraged hoarding supply, inflating metals prices.
2014-12-18	GS	John Weinberg out as co-head of investment banking at Goldman	He's to be replaced as one of the three co-heads of investment banking by John Waldron. The others are David Solomon and Richard Gnodde. Waldron joined Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) in 2000 and most recently was head of investment banking services. Weinberg will move to a new client-development role, and will remain one of Goldman's three vice chairman. The move comes as the bank is wrapping up one of its best investment-banking years ever, including advising on M&A deals totaling more than $1T - the first time any bank hit that mark since 2007.
2014-12-17	GS	Jefferies results bad omen for investment banks	Jefferies yesterday posted a 73% plunge in fixed-income trading revenue for the quarter ended Nov. 30, and a 45% fall in equity-trading revenue. “You’re going to see weaker trading results because of what I’d call bad volatility,” says Charles Peabody, as firms cut back on stock and bond offerings. That Q4 trading revenue is going to be a weak one for the likes of JPM, C, BAC, GS, and MS shouldn't be a major surprise as Ciit's Mike Corbat, BofA's Brian Moynihan, and JPM's Marianne Lake said as much when presenting at a financial services conference earlier this month. But the weakness they described is nowhere near what was reported at Jefferies. Alongside the weak trading results, Jefferies is also looking to get rid of Bache - its commodities-trading business. "The fact that they are throwing in the towel on this business just a few years in would suggest that maybe that opportunity is not nearly as robust as they thought it would be,” says UBS's Brennan Hawken. Previously: Jefferies posts loss, mulling sale of Bache unit (Dec. 16, 2014)
2014-12-15	GS	Goldman steps up ETF efforts	Wanting a piece of the fast-growing $2T per year market, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) files plans for 11 ETFs, including six funds dubbed "ActiveBeta," and five hedge fund-themed passively-managed funds. Goldman Sachs Asset Management is named as the index provider, and the ETFs are to be listed on the NYSE Arca Exchange, though no tickers were named. Two months ago, Goldman was rumored to be in talks to buy ETF provider IndexIQ, but the company earlier this month agreed to a sale to New York Life.
2014-12-10	GS	Susquehanna rings the register on Goldman Sachs	Downgrading to Neutral from Positive, Susquehanna takes note of the stock's full valuation and the idea of the fall in energy prices crimping banking action in 2015. GS -0.7% premarket
2014-12-9	GS	CNBC: Wall Street banks backing Cheniere's big gas plans	Even as energy markets are buffeted by unusual volatility, some of Wall Street's biggest banks are ready to write billion-dollar checks to finance Cheniere Energy's (LNG +0.4%) $15.5B Corpus Christi natural gas project on the Gulf coast, CNBC reports. The commitments could put banks including JPMorgan Chase (NYSE:JPM), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) on the hook if the market for liquefied natural gas goes south, according to the report. The gas terminal, now under development and expected to produce as much as 13.5M tons of liquefied natural gas starting in 2018, is now seeking $11.5B in a seven-year bank credit facility that would depend in part on the issuance of new bonds next year and the year after to repay its debt; private lenders reportedly have provided LNG with an initial $2.5B in funding to construct the terminal.
2014-12-9	GS	Banks slip as Moynihan warns on trading activity	A check of the other major banks  premarket amid a global selloff of some note and BofA's Brian Moynihan's warning about sluggish Q4 trading revenue finds JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) -1.5%, Citigroup (NYSE:C) -1.5%, Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) -1.2%, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) -1.7%, and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) -1.5%. XLF -1.1% ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2014-12-3	GS	Lloyds sells Irish mortgage portfolio to Goldman and CarVal	Lloyds (NYSE:LYG) has sold its troubled £1.6B ($2.5B) portfolio of Irish mortgages to Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and private equity group CarVal, FT reports. Lloyds is withdrawing from its lossmaking Irish operation, which had £19.7B of net exposure at its peak in 2010, compared to RBS, which recently decided to keep its Ulster Bank subsidiary, despite having lost about £15B in Ireland since the financial crisis.
2014-12-2	GS	Imminent negative surprise in store for Too Big To Fail banks?	"Our concern is that the market has become complacent on the setting of the SIFI surcharge for the mega banks, which means there may be surprise at just how onerous the surcharge could be for JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Citigroup (NYSE:C), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS)," writes Guggenheim's Jaret Seiberg. The Fed is expected to announce the capital surcharge on December 9. Previously: U.S. banks to be hit with tougher capital rule
2014-11-26	GS	Goldman, BASF, HSBC, Standard Bank face metals price fixing lawsuit	Units of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), BASF (OTCQX:BASFY), HSBC (NYSE:HSBC) and Standard Bank (OTCPK:SGBLY) have been sued in the U.S. over conspiring since 2007 to rig the twice-daily platinum and palladium "fixings" and the prices of futures and options based on those fixings. The plaintiff, a Florida-based maker of jewelry and police badges named Modern Settings, is claiming that metals purchasers lost millions of dollars due to the scandal. Last month, the London Metal Exchange said it will take charge of platinum and palladium price fixing, and use a new electronic platform from Dec. 1. The Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing unit said the platform would replace a benchmark system established in 1989, run by Goldman, BASF, HSBC and Standard.
2014-11-20	GS	Goldman fires two over leak of confidential FRBNY information	The incident on September 26 involved a junior employee passing along confidential information from the New York Fed - his former employer - to a senior executive at Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS). The incident was immediately reported to its compliance team, regulators, and the New York Fed, says Goldman, and that employee along with a more senior employee who failed to escalate the issue were fired shortly thereafter.
2014-11-19	GS	Goldman cements top position for M&A advisory in 2014	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has cemented its position as the top Wall Street bank for M&A in 2014, as the industry hits one of its busiest years. Just this week, Goldman landed roles on two big acquisitions worth a combined $100B: Actavis' $66B agreement to buy Allergan and Halliburton’s $34.6B planned purchase of Baker Hughes. The bank has so far advised this year on $935B of M&A announcements and proposals world-wide.
2014-11-18	GS	Goldman axes currency trader tied to forex probe	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.1%) wasn't among the list of those punished in last week's foreign-exchange manipulation settlements, but the bank has fired a currency trader who was allegedly involved in the shenanigans before he became a Goldmanite. The trader joined Goldman Sachs in 2012 after working at HSBC where the alleged misdeeds apparently took place.
2014-11-17	GS	Interest rate bet gone bad hits Goldman hedge fund	The Goldman Sachs Global Opportunities Fund - a $3.2B hedge fund which invests based on the top ideas from Goldman's (NYSE:GS) asset management unit's fixed-income team - bet on a rise in interest rates, but declined 5.6% for October after just the opposite happened, reports Bloomberg. Since inception in 2001, the fund has generated a net IRR of 9.1%, according to a Bloomberg source, but is off 2.6% YTD, setting it up for just its second calendar-year loss.
2014-11-12	GS	Goldman names 78 new partners	The new group in 2015 will bring the number of partners at Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) up to 467, or 1.6% of full-time employees, reports Reuters, citing an internal memo. The new class includes 23 from investment banking, 25 from securities, 11 from investment management, four from merchant banking, and 12 from the so-called "Federation" - back- and middle-office roles like finance, compliance, and risk-management.
2014-11-5	GS	Goldman sheds hedge fund holdings ahead of Volcker Rule	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.2%) and others have until July 2015 to come into compliance with the Volcker Rule part of Dodd-Frank mandating the exit from certain types of trading with their own money. In Q3, Goldman sold another $285M in hedge fund holdings, bringing the total jettisoned to $2.55B, with immediate plans for $375M more. The bank still has work to do with about $11.4B more in funds subject to the Volcker Rule, and Goldman warns this won't be easy thanks to the illiquid nature of some of the investments. 10-Q
2014-11-5	GS	Goldman cuts "reasonably possible" legal costs	It's only been since 2010 when U.S. firms began disclosing estimates for possible legal costs, and now it's become spectator sport in the banking sector. In Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) 10-Q for the third quarter, the firm says its "reasonably possible" legal losses were $2.5B, down from $3.2B at the end of Q2.
2014-10-28	GS	Goldman names another investment-banking co-chair	Alex Dibelius is one of Germany's best-known rainmakers, thanks to working on some of that country's biggest deals, his high-profile divorce, and frequent appearances with celebrities. He'll be giving up his role as chairman of global industries at Goldman (GS). As co-chairman of investment-banking, he'll be joining Christopher Cole and Gordon Dyal. The investment-banking division at Goldman has been a fast-growing one this year, with revenue up 17% through the first nine months of 2014, the best performance of any bank.
2014-10-23	GS	Fed details 2015 stress test details	Not having had the pleasure of being subject to the stress test and CCAR previously, Deutsche Bank's (NYSE:DB) U.S. unit will be a participant next year As in prior years, those BHCs with large trading operations - BAC, C, GS, JPM, MS, WFC - will be required to factor in a global market shock as part of their scenarios. Those six, plus STT and BK - thanks to their custodial operations - will be required to incorporate a counterparty default scenario. Among the items in the severely adverse scenario is the unemployment rate jumping to 10%, a 60% dive in the stock market, and oil jumping to $110 per barrel (how about oil falling to $10 per barrel?). ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, IAT, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, KBWB, RKH, QABA, FINU, KCE, KRU, KBWR, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ, KRS
2014-10-19	GS	Private-equity agreements under the scope	Remember last summer's private-equity legal settlements which ensnared sector names like Carlyle Group (NASDAQ:CG), Blackstone (NYSE:BX), KKR, and the P-E arm of Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) for colluding to keep a lid on the prices of buyout targets? Needless to say, management didn't bear the burden of the settlement penalties, but neither did the shareholders. In the case of Carlyle at least, the $115M fine was shouldered by the investors in one of its buyout funds. Those investors include state and city workers and retirees from across the country, and chances are they were unaware they were responsible for these costs due to the highly secretive nature of the agreements made between P-E and the pension funds which invest in them. Disclosure "would cause substantial competitive harm," says a Carlyle spokesman. “This is an overreach on Carlyle’s part, and frankly it violates the spirit of the indemnification clause of our contract,” says NYC Comptroller Scott Stringer, who oversees three city pension funds invested in that particular Carlyle vehicle. Private-equity firms now manage $3.5T in assets, and pension funds have been among the more willing investors, with 10% of their assets - or $260B - in P-E. Yet the terms of their deals - including what they're paying to take part - are hidden from view despite open-records laws demanding just the opposite. “Hundreds of billions of public pension dollars have essentially been moved into secrecy accounts,” says former SEC lawyer Edward Siedle. "It’s very damning legal boilerplate that sums up the fact that they are the highest-risk, highest-fee products ever devised by Wall Street.” ETFs: PSP, PEX
2014-10-17	GS	Banks charging customers for euro deposits	Among the lenders now charging clients who want to park euros with them are Bank of New  York Mellon (BK +0.2%), Goldman Sachs (GS +1.8%), and JPMorgan (JPM +1.5%), reports the WSJ. The banks themselves must pay to deposit money with the ECB after it imposed a negative rate on deposits last summer (and then made it more negative last month). Next up is HSBC which reportedly will son begin charging customers who deposit more than about €10M, and Credit Suisse (CS +1.1%) is set to do the same. Clients most immediately affected are investment firms, but multinationals with sizable European operations may soon face these costs.
2014-10-16	GS	Report: Goldman in talks to buy ETF provider	Goldman Sachs (GS -2.6%) moved to get into the ETF business in late September, filing to launch a series of actively-managed ETFs, but that may not be fast enough, as Reuters reports the bank is in discussions to acquire IndexIQ. Should Goldman pull it off, it could be in the ETF business within months. IndexIQ at the moment offers ETFs in five sectors: Hedge fund replication, commodities, real estate, real return & inflation hedge, and international. On the company earnings call earlier today, Goldman CFO Harvey Schwarz spoke of the bank's willingness to make acquisitions if the deal was right.
2014-10-16	GS	Goldman's trading results shy of competitors	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.8%) looks a lot different today than it did five years ago, writes Michael Moore, presenting a chart showing FICC revenue making up just 27% of the firm total vs. 53% in 2009. Also lower as a percent of firm-wide revenue is equities trading at 18% vs. 25%. Investment banking has a larger role at 19% vs. 9%; Investment & Lending 20% vs. 4%; Asset Management & Private Lending 17% vs. 9%. Should the volatility of the last few weeks continue, one suspects FICC revenue will again rise in importance. The sizable earnings beat is less impressive than the headline would suggest, says Moore, noting trading revenue - after excluding accounting gains and a benefit tied to a debt payoff - fell 11% from Q2, a worse result than that of competitors like JPMorgan, Citi, and BofA. Also helping was a cut in compensation cost to just 33% of revenue compared with 35% a year earlier - some analysts had expected the ratio to stay at the 43% level it had been at during Q1 and Q2. Previously: M&A and IPO action combine with Sept. volatility to boost Goldman results
2014-10-16	GS	Notes from Goldman Sachs' earnings call	Yesterday morning's panicky action is a reminder of the power of shifts in investor sentiment, says Goldman Sachs (GS -3%) CFO Harvey Schwartz on the company earnings call. Focus on the long run, he advises, and notes his team of economists assure him that long-term growth prospects remain positive. Webcast We seemingly talk about this every call, says UBS's Brennan Hawken, noting the bank continues to lose advisory market share. Goldman management continues to talk about increased client engagement which is nice, says Hawken, but when is this going to start dropping to the bottom line. Previously: M&A and IPO action combine with Sept. volatility to boost Goldman results
2014-10-16	GS	M&A and IPO action combine with Sept. volatility to boost Goldman results	Q3 EPS of $4.57 compares with $4.10 in Q2 and $2.88 one year ago. Investment banking net revenue of $1.46B up 26% Y/Y, with Financial Advisory revenue of $594M up 40% thanks to busy M&A activity. Underwriting revenue of $870M up 17% thanks to fast IPO action, though debt underwriting revenue fell somewhat. Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.77B up 32% Y/Y, with FICC revenue of $2.17B up 74% (though a nonrecurring gain helped out a bit). The FICC boon came from significantly higher revenue in currencies, along with interest rates, commodities, and mortgages, offset by significantly lower revenue in credit products. Conditions in the latter part of the quarter were notably better (and no doubt have continued into Q4). Investing and Lending revenue of $1.69B up 15% Y/Y thanks to strong markets. Investment Management revenue of $1.46B up 20% Y/Y primarily due to higher assets under supervision. Expenses of $5.08B up 12% Y/Y, with compensation of $2.8B up 18%. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenue through the year's first nine months of 40% compares with 41% from the same period one year ago. Staff increased by 3% in Q3. 7.1M shares repurchased during Q at an average cost of $176 each. 32M shares remain in buyback program. Conference call at 9:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs boosts dividend Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $1.36, beats on revenue GS -2.3% premarket as broader markets tank again
2014-10-16	GS	Goldman Sachs declares $0.60 dividend	Goldman Sachs  (NYSE:GS) declares $0.60/share quarterly dividend, 9.1% increase from prior dividend of $0.55. Forward yield 1.35% Payable Dec. 30; for shareholders of record Dec. 2; ex-div Nov. 27.
2014-10-16	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $1.36, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q3 EPS of $4.57 beats by $1.36. Revenue of $8.39B (+24.9% Y/Y) beats by $540M. Shares +0.43% PM.
2014-10-15	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ADS, BAX, BBT, BHI, BX, CY, DAL, DHR, DOV, FCFS, FCS, FITB, FRC, GS, GWW, HLSS, HOMB, MAT, NTCT, ORB, PM, PPG, PVTB, SNA, SON, SVU, SYNT, TSM, TZOO, UNH, VAC, WBS, WGO
2014-10-14	GS	Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley investors eye boosted FICC action at JPM, Citi	JPMorgan scored a 2.1% Y/Y increase in FICC revenue in Q3, also up 0.9% from the previous quarter. This comes following sizable trading revenue declines in previous quarters, and further slippage had been expected this quarter. Also reporting today, Citigroup showed a 6.7% rise in trading revenue, topping its own guidance. The results, says Credit Suisse's Christian Bolu, bode well for Goldman Sachs (GS +0.7%) and Morgan Stanley (MS +0.8%). Helping was the return of at least a little volatility in September (there's been plenty more in Q4's first month), not to mention an easy comparison with last year's poor levels. CS's Bolu previously expected Goldman to show a 3% Q3 FICC revenue drop and Morgan a 16% decline. Previously: JPMorgan: Interest income and FICC gain Previously: Citigroup +2.3% after earnings beat
2014-10-10	GS	Banks' Q3 preview: MKM sees mostly earnings beats	"Steadily improving economic and capital markets backdrop will drive investment banking and loan growth higher, while trading is likely to rebound as the extended period of low volume and volatility is starting to shift back toward more normal conditions in September," say MKM's David Trone and Pankaj Chitrakar, expecting to see earnings for five bulge-bracket banks higher by 11% in Q3. The team remains bullish on all five, but sees just four - Citigroup (C -0.9%), Bank of America (BAC +0.5%), Goldman Sachs (GS +0.5%), and Morgan Stanley (MS +0.4%) - beating estimates. JPMorgan (JPM +0.3%) should just meet the $1.38 EPS consensus, they say, with strength in investment banking offset by declining mortgage banking.
2014-10-9	GS	Ahead of earnings, JPMorgan still favorite of sell side	Twenty-nine analysts have Buy ratings on JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), with nine Holds, and just one Sell, according to Bloomberg. For the second straight year, it's the best consensus rating of any of the ten largest U.S. lenders. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) - with just nine Buys, 19 Holds, and five Sells - is the least loved. "We expect that by the end of 2014 and beyond, litigation expense will diminish very substantially, and that over time, the distrust of large banks by investors will be replaced by a fondness for the boringly stable nature of the bulk of their earnings during the 'normal' part of the cycle," said Oppenheimer's Chris Kotowski last month, arguing JPMorgan should be valued at far more than 1.35x tangible book and 9.9x 2015 estimates. JPMorgan reports its Q3 ahead of the bell on October 14.
2014-10-8	GS	Goldman ordered to pay legal fees for Libyan fund	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) tried to have a $1B lawsuit filed by the Libyan Investment Authority dismissed by sending it to a "summary trial" rather than a full hearing. That move failed in August, and this week a two-day hearing was held in London to determine if the bank would have to reimburse the fund for its legal costs. The presiding judge ruled the summary judgement application never should have been issued and ordered Goldman to pay at least £200K, but this could rise to £680K. A full trial is expected to begin in 2016.
2014-10-8	GS	Banks to revise rules governing derivatives market	Eighteen of the world's largest banks, ranging from Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS) to Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), have agreed to give up the right to "close out" deals on derivatives contracts if a financial institution runs into trouble, FT reports. The International Swaps and Derivatives Association is due to announce the agreement to change its “protocols”, which govern the $700T market, in the next few days. They will take effect from January 1, 2015. Related stocks: HSBC, JPM, OTC:BNPZY, DB, BCS, BAC, SAN, C, RBS,
2014-10-7	GS	Wells Fargo sees improving capital markets revenues at big players	Ahead of Q3 earnings results set for release this month, Wells Fargo lifts its price targets on those banks with sizable capital markets businesses, citing strong investment banking action and trading activity that's stopped falling. Outperform-rated Ciitgroup (NYSE:C) and JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) have their price targets lifted to $60 from $57, and $68 from $66, respectively. Market Perform-rated Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) have their targets lifted to $19 from $17, $195 from $185, and $37 from $35, respectively.
2014-10-5	GS	Becton Dickinson to acquire CareFusion for $12.2B	Becton Dickinson (NYSE:BDX) will acquire CareFusion (NYSE:CFN) for $12.2B in cash and stock in a merger of medical-products makers. CareFusion shareholders will receive $49 in cash and 0.0777 BDX share for each CFN share, based on BDX’s Oct. 3 closing price. BDX expects the deal will add “double-digit” EPS accretion in its first full year. BDX has $9.1B in fully committed bridge funding from Goldman (NYSE:GS). The price represents a 26% premium to CFN’s Oct. 3 closing price of $46.17. BDX CEO Vincent Forlenza: “BD’s acquisition of CareFusion allows us to align our highly complementary technologies and products to address unmet needs in the growing $20 billion global medication management industry, which leverages BD’s world-wide infrastructure. It accelerates BD’s transition from a product-focused company to a customer-centric provider of innovative healthcare solutions with leading scale across the medication management value chain and expanded solutions for patient safety.”
2014-9-26	GS	NY Fed: We weren't too soft on Goldman	The New York Fed pushes back against allegations that it was too soft on big banks -- particularly Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) in a transaction involving Banco Santander (NYSE:SAN), a deal that got new interest when secret recordings by former examiner Carmen Segarra came to light today. Segarra filed suit against NY Fed claiming she was fired for criticizing Goldman Sachs just seven months after being assigned to investigate GS practices. Her case was thrown out this year. The examiner had made 46 hours of recordings, though, and ProPublica reports they show a Fed that was loath to push hard against Goldman, especially a regulatory capital deal where Santander was to transfer some shares in a Brazilian subsidiary to Goldman to cut capital requirements. A former Fed official is on the recordings saying that deal was not illegal, but "shady." WSJ: NY Fed staff afraid to speak up, secret review found
2014-9-25	GS	Holder’s departure could signal end of big mortgage cases	Today's resignation of Attorney General Eric Holder could mark the beginning of the end of the Justice Department’s push to hold big banks accountable for their conduct leading up to the financial crisis. Several big banks, including Goldman Sachs (GS -2.1%) and Wells Fargo (WFC -1.1%), are still under investigations by the Justice Department for their sale of flawed mortgage securities before 2008, but settlements in those cases are expected to be much smaller than the big sums extracted from Bank of America (BAC -1.8%), JPMorgan Chase (JPM -2%) and Citigroup (C -2.2%). Another sign that the big bank cases may be winding down: Tony West, who was Holder’s point man in the bank settlement talks, recently left the Justice Department to join PepsiCo as its general counsel.
2014-9-25	GS	Banks near deal to buy messaging start-up Perzo	A purchase pf Perzo could lead to the creation of an instant-messaging service to rival that of Bloomberg, and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is leading a group of 14 Wall Street firms nearing a deal. Bloomberg terminals are a staple at banks and money management operations - helping employees keep up with the markets and allowing them to communicate electronically - but gripes about the $20K per year price tag and Bloomberg's refusal to sell services a la carte are growing. By backing a viable alternative to Bloomberg's highly popular messaging service, bank chiefs believe they'll get a lever with which to negotiate better pricing on terminals.
2014-9-23	GS	Goldman joins the ETF move	The company late last week filed to launch a series of active ETFs, naming the Goldman Sachs Equity Dividend Fund as its initial offering. In a separate filing, Goldman (NYSE:GS) is seeking approval to self-index - allowing the bank to launch funds based on its own proprietary indexes. Goldman hasn't said much about its ETF plans, but this summer charged a key executive to help grow its strategy. The bank five years ago filed to launch passive index-tracking ETFs, but never opened any funds. Goldman's move last week follows those of JPMorgan - which launched its first ETF in June - and Wells Fargo, which received a regulatory green light for ETFs in August.
2014-9-23	GS	Exodus of bank talent continues	This time it's Goldman Sachs' (NYSE:GS) head European head of spot foreign-exchange trading Mitesh Parikh who is leaving after 12 years to join a hedge fund. The exit is just the latest of many amid cost-cutting and new regulations aimed at keeping a lid on prop trading. The number of bankers doing business in G-10 currencies fell to 2,278 in H1 from 2,929 four years ago, according to Coalition Ltd. “In the political heat generated during the recent downturn, regulators became over zealous trying to out do each other with their ‘bash the banks, tough-guy approach,'” says the head of a London-based executive search firm, unsurprised over the string of departures.
2014-9-16	GS	Goldman sees strong demand for landmark bond issue	Goldman Sachs (GS +0.2%) drew about $1.5B in orders for $500M of Islamic bonds it sold today, thus opening up a new venue for funding by becoming the first conventional U.S. bank to issue sukuk. Goldman initially tried and failed to sell sukuk in 2011 (HSBC is the only other Western bank to sell Islamic bonds). The paper priced at a spread of 90 bps over midswaps, a bit tighter than initial guidance of 95 bps, and carry a "profit rate" (traditional interest is not allowed) of 2.844%, a small premium to the 2.625% Goldman is paying on conventional notes due in 2019.
2014-9-10	GS	NY pension fund in $2B partnership with Goldman	Its first time forming such a partnership, NY state's $180.7B pension fund is giving Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GS +1%) $2B to invest in stocks globally. In addition, Goldman will provide advice on the pension's remaining $98B stock holdings. "Identifying new opportunities is key to the continued growth of the fund’s long-term value,” says Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli. It will give the pension “full access to world-class global equity investment opportunities and the nimbleness to take advantage of them on a timely basis.” The fund is joining other public funds who allocate major chunks of capital over a long period of time to investment managers in return for cheaper fees. The deal is a "landmark assignment," say Tim O'Neill and Eric Lane, the co-heads of the investment management division at Goldman.
2014-9-10	GS	More talent exits the banking sector	Formerly the head of the gaming group at Goldman Sachs (GS +0.7%), Adam Rosenberg is now a managing director at Fortress Investment Group (FIG +0.4%), where he'll head that company's Gaming & Leisure investment platform. Rosenberg was a banker at Goldman for 16 years. Previously: Yet another move from banking to private equity
2014-9-9	GS	U.S. banks to be hit with tougher capital rule	The Fed intends to impose a capital surcharge on banks tougher than the international standard, according to Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo's prepared remarks for the Senate Banking Committee. Those banks with heavier reliance on short-term funding like overnight loans - i.e. Goldman Sachs (GS -1%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -1.8%) - will likely face even more rigorous requirements. Officials haven't yet decided on a number, but reportedly are considering as much as 200 basis points more than the top range of 2.5% of risk-weighted assets agreed to by international regulators. What's not yet clear is who would need to raise capital to meet the new, tougher standard. Citigroup (C -1%), Bank of America (BAC -0.6%), JPMorgan (JPM -1.3%), Wells Fargo (WFC -0.4%), State Street (STT -1.1%), Bank of New York Mellon (BK -0.9%) ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2014-9-5	GS	Big banks get hit with CDS lawsuit	U.S. Federal Judge Denise Cote has ruled that investors may press claims against 12 major banks for violating antitrust law by limiting competition and fixing prices in the $21T CDS market, even though improved liquidity should have driven costs down. The defendants include BofA (NYSE:BAC), Barclays (NYSE:BCS), BNP Paribas (OTC:BNPZY), Citigroup (NYSE:C), Credit Suisse (NYSE:CS), Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), HSBC (NYSE:HSBC), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), RBS (NYSE:RBS) and UBS (NYSE:UBS).
2014-9-5	GS	ICE to invest in financial data market	IntercontinentalExchange (NYSE:ICE) is the next on Wall Street to push back against Bloomberg’s dominance. Following the CME Group (NASDAQ:CME) which has invested in Wickr and Goldman's (NYSE:GS) Perzo investment, ICE is now expected to pay $350M for SuperDerivatives, a Tel-Aviv based business that provides data and analytics on OTC derivatives and contains a chat platform. The acquisition also includes the group’s DGX product, which allows traders to analyze theoretical trades before they execute them and grants access to live pricing and news.
2014-9-4	GS	Islamic bonds go mainstream	The sukuk market is now large enough for the global banks which are eager to tap more Middle Eastern money, and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) next week in Qatar will begin a road show as it looks to raise at least $500M. Should the Goldman deal go through, it would become just the 2nd non-Islamic bank to sell sukuk. The first was HSBC with a $500M deal in 2011. Other banks - SocGen and Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ - are prepping offerings as well. New issues of sukuk this year total $85.9M and 456 deals, vs. $74.9B and 558 deals a year ago.
2014-9-4	GS	Bank liquidity rules approved	U.S. regulators have approved of the proposed liquidity rules to safeguard banks in case of a financial crunch. The rules are requiring large U.S. banks to load up on ultra-safe assets to ensure enough cash and securities to fund their operations for 30 days. Separate liquidity rules for foreign banks will be drawn up at a later date. Big banks will need to hold a total of about $2.5T in easy-to-sell assets by 2017, which would result in a $100B shortfall if the threshold applied today. Related tickers: JPM, C, BAC, WFC, GS, MS, BK, STT, ZION Previously: Bank regulators to vote on new liquidity rules
2014-9-3	GS	Bank regulators to vote on new liquidity rules	Bank regulators are expected to finalize rules today that would require banks to hold capital against every asset on their books, and approve of a "liquidity-coverage ratio", which would require large banks to load up on ultra-safe assets to fund their operations for 30 days. The new rules have Wall Street concerned due to the likely harm to earnings and lending restrictions, although regulators say the policies will create a safer financial system. Related tickers: JPM, C, BAC, WFC, GS, MS, BK, STT, ZION
2014-9-1	GS	Carlyle last to settle LBO lawsuit	Carlyle Group (NASDAQ:CG) is now the last to settle allegations against the world’s largest private equity groups, which previously accused the firms of conspiring to fix the prices of LBOs. Although Carlyle has now agreed to pay $115M, it still denies wrongdoing and does not regard the settlement as an admission of guilt. The decision follows similar settlements from the Blackstone Group (NYSE:BX), Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), KKR (NYSE:KKR), Bain Capital, Silver Lake Partners and TPG Capital, which were all accused of conspiring not to jump each others' deals.
2014-8-30	GS	Richard Pzena sees value in big financials and big oil	"Most of the reason that banks are underearning relative to their historical norms ... is economic and not regulatory," says Richard Pzena (NYSE:PZN), who remains bullish on the TBTFs. Low interest rates, weak trading, and "government persecution" are the three factors, and - should these normalize - earnings could nearly double at Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and Citigroup (NYSE:C), though JPMorgan's (NYSE:JPM) boost would be more modest. Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is another favorite. Broad financial ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, RWW, RYF, FINZ Another cheap sector is energy, says Pzena, and based on relative valuation against the broader market - whether price-to-book or price-to-earnings - the major integrated oil companies are selling near all-time lows. What the market is missing, says Pzena, is the nature of oil investment. The old days saw capital spending one year, and boosted volume the next. Projects nowadays are far larger and require several years of spending before returns roll in. "We think those big new projects are going to perform and produce decent returns." HIs favorites: BP, RDS.A, RDS.B, XOM, TOT. Broad energy ETFs: XLE, ERX, VDE, OIH, ERY, DIG, DUG, IYE, PXJ, FENY, RYE, FXN, DDG
2014-8-25	GS	Goldman's legal troubles not over says Credit Suisse	"We expect regulation/litigation costs to remain a drag on earnings in the near to intermediate term," despite this weekend's $1.2B settlement with the FHFA, say analysts Christian Boluand Ashley Serrao. For its part, Goldman Sachs (GS +1.6%) estimates the upper end of the range of "reasonably possible" losses to be about $3.2B in excess of reserves. Nevertheless, the team continues to rate the stock an Outperform thanks to similar valuations to peers, but a higher return profile over the near-to-intermediate term. Previously: Goldman and Morgan next up for DOJ settlement?
2014-8-25	GS	Goldman and Morgan next up for DOJ settlement?	Following major-league mortgage-related settlements with JPMorgan, Citigroup, and Bank of America, the DOJ has turned its attention to Goldman Sachs (GS +2.2%) and Morgan Stanley (MS +3.2%), and both are in early discussions, reports the FT. Evidence is still being gathered, say the FT's sources, and negotiations over a deal are still a ways off. Neither Morgan nor Goldman were as big of players in mortgages as the other banks, so the terms and numbers are likely to be somewhat eased from the headline-grabbing ones of JPMorgan, Citi, and BofA. Previously: Goldman settles with FHFA, will buy back RMBS for $3.15B
2014-8-22	GS	Goldman settles with FHFA, will buy back RMBS for $3.15B	To settle the FHFA's suit against the firm, Goldman (NYSE:GS) has agreed to pay $3.15B to buy back residential MBS purchased by Fannie and Freddie from 2005-2007. The costs of doing so are "substantially covered" by Goldman's reserves as of the end of Q2. The WSJ reported in July Goldman could pay $800M-$1.25B to settle. The FHFA has now reached deals with 15 of the 18 banks it sued in 2011.
2014-8-21	GS	JPMorgan, BofA to hike salaries of junior bankers	JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) are planning to raise junior employees' salaries by at least 20%, Reuters reports Many banks have been considering pay hikes, as Wall Street continues to ease strains on junior bankers by limiting the hours they work and compensating them better. Yesterday, Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) announced its plans for salary increases and Citigroup (NYSE:C) is now considering a similar pay raise.
2014-8-20	GS	Goldman reportedly boosting junior staff salaries by 20%	Junior bankers at Goldman Sachs (GS -0.1%) - where they are known to put in 100-hour work weeks - could see more than a 20% raise next year, reports the NYPost. The paper's source says no changes are planned for how much staff could make from bonuses. The move comes following Goldman's decision to begin giving analysts Saturdays off (if you don't come in on Saturday, don't even think about coming in on Sunday). Morgan Stanley last month reportedly boosted salaries for mid-level staff by up to 25%, and BofA has taken steps to make sure analysts and associates take at least four weekend days off per month.
2014-8-20	GS	Goldman teams to buy 144 U.K. hotels	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) and Goldentree Asset Management acquired Travelodge Hotels in a debt restructuring in 2012, and today agree to buy 144 hotels leased to the company in a deal valued at about $830M. Among the owners is Lloyds (NYSE:LYG), which is busily shedding noncore assets. The budget-hotel chain operates 500 hotels and 38K rooms in the U.K., Ireland, and Spain. It has been busily renovating its properties in hopes of improving profitability.
2014-8-19	GS	Goldman and Libya SWF headed to trial	Goldman Sachs (GS) withdrew its summary judgement application after looking over the Libya Investment Authority's reply evidence (according to the LIA), and the two are headed to trial over the fund's claim Goldman improperly led it into more than $1B in equity trades which expired worthless. Goldman reaped a profit of about $350M on the trades, according to the suit. Next up is a case management hearing scheduled for early October.
2014-8-19	GS	Goldman Sachs executive exits for private-equity	Another banker takes his talents to private-equity as L. Brooks Entwistle - Goldman Sach's (NYSE:GS) chairman of Southeast Asia and CEO of its investment banking unit in Singapore - leaves to become CEO of India-focused Everstone Group. Currently based in Singapore, Entwistle spent time in Mumbai as founder and CEO of Goldman Sachs India.
2014-8-13	GS	GSAM a final bidder in major Tokyo office building deal	In what would be the biggest office property deal in Tokyo in six years, Secured Capital is trying to sell the 32-story Pacific Century Place Marunouchi for about ¥165B, or $1.6B, reports Reuters, and Goldman's (NYSE:GS) asset management unit is among the final bidders. Investors are being lured into Tokyo as prices are hoped to continue to rebound amid aggressive government monetary and fiscal policies. The building was built in 2001 and sold in 2006 for ¥200B.
2014-8-13	GS	Banks lobby to delay Volcker rule	Bank officials, trade groups and lawmakers are quietly pressing the Federal Reserve for a delay of up to seven years regarding the rule that limits their investments in private-equity and venture-capital funds The "Volcker rule," part of the Dodd-Frank legislation, restricts banks' ownership stake in hedge funds and private equity funds, and prohibits banks from making speculative bets with their own money. Regulators finalized the rule in December but agreed not to enforce it until 2015. Related tickers: JPM, C, BAC, WFC, GS, MS, BK, STT, ZION
2014-8-13	GS	SEC to investigate alternative mutual funds	The SEC has launched an investigation into examining alternative mutual funds, following their recent surge in popularity. The funds in question typically employ investment strategies that imitate those of hedge funds, such as investing in private debt or shorting assets, and command higher fees. Investigations will be conducted at large investment firms such as BlackRock (NYSE:BLK) and AQR Capital Management, as well as smaller firms that previously didn't offer mutual funds. Related tickers: GS, BK
2014-8-8	GS	Private equity IPOs keeping IBs in the chips	Private equity firms have paid $1.3B this year to investment banks like JPMorgan (JPM +0.4%) and Goldman Sachs (GS +0.8%) for their assistance with arranging IPOs of portfolio companies, according to Dealogic. That's more than double the $498M paid over the same period in 2013. The share price performance of the IPOs leaves something to be desired - up 8.1% so far vs. a 25.9% gain for IPOs of businesses not backed by P-E. On the other hand, IPOs from P-E firms have performed better over the long-term - those from 2010, for example, are up 48.4%, while all other IPOs are down 19.2%. Goldman has the largest share of global fees from P-E firms with 11.1%, followed by JPMorgan with 8.2%. Bank of America (BAC -0.3%) has a 7.2% share.
2014-8-6	GS	Goldman aims to boost trading business with promotion	Currently a top sales executive at the bank, Stacy Bash-Polley has been tapped to take on the newly-created role of head of client relationship management at Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%), reports Bloomberg. The move comes as Goldman - which gets a larger share of its revenue from trading than any other U.S. bank - saw trading revenue decline 12% in H1, the fifth consecutive H1 drop. In her new role, Bash-Polley will report to Tom Cornacchia, global head of FICC sales, and Paul Russo, the co-head of Goldman's equities trading business.
2014-8-6	GS	Feds reject "living wills" of 11 major lenders	The Federal Reserve and the FDIC say the bankruptcy plans submitted by 11 of the largest banks make "unrealistic or inadequately supported" assumptions and "fail to make, or even to identify, the kinds of changes in firm structure and practices that would be necessary to enhance the prospects for" an orderly failure. Ouch! Full feedback The 11 dinged: BAC, BK, C, GS, JPM, MS, STT, and the U.S. units of BCS, CS, DB, and UBS. To review: Dodd-Frank requires banks annually submit a "living will" detailing their operations and exposures and how they could be dismantled without the need of a bailout in the event they near failure. Pleasing the regulators is a must as they have the power to force tougher capital rules or restrictions on growth, or even mandate a breakup of the lenders. As for the current failures, the banks have about a year to address D.C.'s concerns. "Despite the thousands of pages of material these firms submitted, the plans provide no credible or clear path through bankruptcy that doesn't require unrealistic assumptions and direct or indirect public support," says the FDIC's #2 official, Thomas Hoenig. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, RWW, RYF, FINZ
2014-8-6	GS	Morgan Stanley, Goldman latest to be probed over dark pools	Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) have now been added to the long list of banks being investigated for their dark pools. The probes started with a lawsuit from the New York Attorney General in June which accused Barclays of favoring high frequency traders over other investors within the pool. Since then, investigations have spread to Deutsche Bank, UBS and Credit Suisse.
2014-8-5	GS	Goldman, Deutsche near purchase of NBG buyout unit	Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GS -1.3%) and DB Private Equity (DB -2.9%) are in talks to pay about $500M for NBGI Private Equity - the buyout arm of National Bank of Greece (NBG -2.7%), reports Bloomberg. That would be about one third less than the Greek lender originally invested in the business. The P-E arm has underperformed competitors, according to data seen by Bloomberg, with 10 of its 11 funds projected to lose about 25 cents for every dollar invested. Its high-living CEO Pavlos Stellakis, along with the rest of the management team, is in negotiations to remain with the firm after the deal has been completed.
2014-8-5	GS	Goldman reconsiders services it offers to hedge funds	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) is shifting its business structure with hedge funds, abandoning less-profitable clients and increasing some fees on others as it adapts to new banking rules. Ever-increasing regulations on Wall Street have forced the bank to set aside more capital, triggering Goldman to even pull the firm's own cash out of its largest internal hedge fund. Larger capital requirements continue to cause Goldman and many other banks to squeeze more out of client relationships, charging clients more to finance trades and adding monthly fees, as they face shareholder demand to keep up their same high returns.
2014-8-4	GS	Goldman hires Barclays' former head of M&A	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has hired Paul Parker, Barclays' (NYSE:BCS) former global head of mergers, who left the bank earlier this year ahead of the restructuring of its investment-banking unit. Parker is expected to start the new role in the next few weeks, and will become co-chairman of M&A.
2014-8-3	GS	Goldman leads Wall Street to open-source Bloomberg alternative	Wall Street firms led by Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) are closing in on a deal to purchase a stake in chat and instant messaging start-up Perzo as an alternative to Bloomberg's similar application, Reuters reports. Bloomberg has dominated Wall Street for years, but banks have been looking for a substitute as sluggish trading volumes and higher regulations weigh on revenues. Bloomberg's trading and news terminal costs about $20,000 a year, while Perzo's applications are open-source and free. Bloomberg customers must also buy an entire terminal, and cannot just buy the messaging system and adapt it. Several other banks and asset managers have received term sheets for the Perzo deal and have recently signed non-disclosure agreements including Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS), JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC), Deutsche Bank (NYSE:DB), HSBC (NYSE:HSBC), and BlackRock (NYSE:BLK). Goldman has been looking at alternatives to Bloomberg's messaging program for years, and launched a project internally called "Babel" in early 2013 to develop a competitor.
2014-7-29	GS	Online brokers on the move on report of Goldman sniffing around	It's not the first time Charlie Gasparino has floated this report, but E*Trade (ETFC +4.7%) and Schwab (SCHW +1.5%) have their tails in the air as the Fox News reporter says Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%) is having internal discussions about whether it should swallow up one of the online brokers. Also on the move is Ameritrade (AMTD +1.4%). Previously: Goldman eyeing online brokers as trading business disappears?
2014-7-26	GS	Report: Goldman FHFA settlement could near $1B or more	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) has been in talks with the FHFA about resolving a lawsuit over crisis-era mortgages that could see the bank paying in the area of $800M-$1.25B, reports the WSJ. It would be the largest legal payout in Goldman's long history. The story quickly adds that no settlement is imminent. The FHFA sued 18 banks in 2011 over failing to properly disclose risks in MBS sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. All but four of the companies have settled, and the trial is scheduled to being in late September. Goldman, and others, have asked a federal judge to toss out some of the FHFA claims thanks to a recent Supreme Court ruling which may mean the lawsuits were filed too late.
2014-7-25	GS	Goldman names new lead director	James Schiro has retired from the Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS) board for medical reasons and will be succeeded by current director Adebayo Ogunlesi. A former CEO at Zurich Financial and PwC, Schiro was made lead director in 2012 in response to shareholder pressure to have a counterweight to Chairman Lloyd Blankfein. The managing partner and chairman of P-E firm Global Infrastructure Partners, Ogunlesi has been on the Goldman board since 2012.
2014-7-22	GS	Goldman to offer bond using total return swap	Goldman Sachs (GS +1.3%) is planning €10B in sales of a controversial new type of bond that utilizes total return swaps, at the same time the derivatives are gaining popularity in the market due to the historic lows of credit investments. Total return swaps allow investors to gain exposure to a portfolio of bonds or loans without actually having to come up the cash needed to own such assets. Investors pay money to a bank or other counter-party in exchange for income linked to the performance of the underlying basket of securities. The new bond is being classed as a "covered obligation," and uses a total return swap struck with Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance on a changeable portfolio of fixed income assets. S&P already gave the offering a AAA rating, but Fitch warns that the deal’s "structural protections and collateralization levels are too low" to warrant such a designation.
2014-7-22	GS	Reuters: Goldman, Warburg Pincus close to $2B Huarong stake	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS), Warburg Pincus and five additional investors are close to completing a deal to buy up to a 20% stake in China's biggest bad debt manager - China Huarong Asset Management, Reuters reports. At the end of 2013, China Huarong had about $65.7B under management.
2014-7-15	GS	Notes from Goldman earnings call	Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%) continues to see a big boost in CEO confidence and thus M&A activity, says bank CFO Harvey Schwartz on the earnings call. "This traditionally coincides with increased client activity and economic sentiment." Along with the opportunity from M&A, Goldman sees better business coming from clients' increasing worry over higher interest rates, along with customer focus on outsourcing portfolio management functions to save money and return to their core competencies. Goldman is well off of its session highs following a major earnings beat. A closer look shows a major jump in Investing and Lending net revenue to $2.07B thanks to net gains of $1.25B primarily from private equity investments "driven by company-specific events." “It’s like owning an orchard,” says Brad Hintz. “There are periods of time where you’re just sitting there looking at trees, and then you’re just up to your knees in apples. We happen to be at the point where the harvest is coming in.”
2014-7-15	GS	Goldman +1.7% after scorching estimates	EPS of $4.10 vs. $3.70 a year ago, $4.02 in Q1. Annualized ROE of 10.9%. Investment banking revenue of $1.78B up 15% Y/Y, with underwriting revenue of $1.28B up 20% thanks to a big boost in equity underwriting. Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.83B falls 11% from a year ago and 14% from Q1 due to "significantly lower" action in currencies and, to a lesser extent, commodities. "Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution continued to operate in a challenging environment as market volatility and levels of activity generally remained low." Investing & Lending revenue of $2.07B up 46% Y/Y, led by big gains in private equity investments. Investment Management revenue of $1.44B up 8% Y/Y. Operating expenses of $6.3B up 6%, with compensation and benefit expense of $3.92B up 6%. Compensation and benefit ratio of 43% is flat from a year ago. Non-compensation expenses of $2.38B up 5%, helped by higher provisions for legal and regulatory action. 7.8M shares repurchased during Q at average cost of $160.89 for total cost of $1.25B. 39.1M shares remain under current authorization. Conference call at 10:30 ET Previously: Goldman Sachs beats by $1.05, beats on revenue GS +1.7% premarket
2014-7-15	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $1.05, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (NYSE:GS): Q2 EPS of $4.10 beats by $1.05. Revenue of $9.13B (+6.0% Y/Y) beats by $1.16B.
2014-7-14	GS	Notable earnings before Tuesday's open	CBSH, CMA, GS, JBHT, JNJ, JPM, WWW
2014-7-2	GS	Can booming M&A offset trading slowdown?	Global M&A deals in H1 totaled $1.571T, according to Mergermarket, up 56% over the same period in 2013, and up 29.8% from last year's 2nd half. in the U.S., $694.6B of deals in H1 nearly doubled that of one year prior. European deals of $453.6B gained 35.5%, and Asian deals of $286.7B rose 56.8%. The M&A boom could help offset at least some of the widely expected continued trading slowdown this quarter (banks begin reporting their Q2s in about 10 days), and Goldman (GS +0.1%) tops the advisor tables with $533.8B in deals in H1, up 112% from a year ago. With $495.6M (up 180.4% Y/Y), Morgan Stanley (MS +0.5%) in in 2nd place. In third place, Bank of America (BAC +2.3%) deals grew 141.7%, and in fifth place, Citigroup (C +1.5%) saw a 177.2% boost in deals. JPMorgan (JPM -1.1%) took 4th place with $324.8B in deals, but saw just a 25.3% rise. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, KBWC, FINZ
2014-7-2	GS	Ex-Goldman seek class action status for gender discrimination suit	Two former female Goldman Sachs (GS +0.3%) employees who filed suit for gender discrimination in 2010 are seeking class acton status which would allow them to continue on in behalf of all female associates and VPs in the bank's investment management and securities divisions. Among the charges are accusations of fostering a "boys club" atmosphere where binge drinking was common and meetings were held at strip clubs.
2014-7-1	GS	Goldman eyeing online brokers as trading business disappears?	Significant fixed-income cuts could be coming at Goldman Sachs (GS -0.3%) reports Charlie Gasparino, amid the continuing slowdown in business, with details maybe coming when the bank reports Q2 earnings on July 15. Both CEO Lloyd Blankfein and President Gary Cohn come from fixed-income and they've been reluctant to give up on the business, but the full effect of Dodd-Frank regulations are beginning to kick in, and a big change in the bank's business model could be necessary. During the internet boom, Goldman sniffed around E*Trade (ETFC +2.8%) and Schwb (SCHW +1.9%), and some bankers, according to Gasparino, say Goldman may need to take another look at purchasing an online brokerage name.
2014-7-1	GS	Trading slump behind Goldman downgrade	"If you’re wrong, you have to admit you’re wrong," says Bernstein's Brad Hintz, throwing in the towel on his Outperform rating for Goldman Sachs (GS -0.4%). "It certainly doesn't look like trading is going to generate effective returns." And if trading does bounce back? "Yeah, they're a winner," says Hintz. "But over the next two years, it’s tough to make an argument that we’re going to see that winning occur.” Previously: Goldman downgraded at Bernstein
2014-7-1	GS	Dark pool fine for Goldman	Finra fines Goldman Sachs (GS -0.3%) $800K for not having properly designed policies to prevent trade-throughs of protected quotes in NMS stocks from November 2008 through August 2011 in connection with its Sigma-X dark pool. In English, rules generally require trading systems trade at the best-quoted prices or route orders to those quoting the best prices. An investigation found from July 29, 2011 to August 9, 2011 there were more than 395K transactions executed in Sigma-X where the execution "traded through" to an inferior price. During this time, Goldman was unaware this as happening. Goldman has since returned $1.67M to injured clients. Previously: NY AG reportedly probing dark pools
2014-7-1	GS	Goldman loses rainmaker to boutique advisory	Chris Spofford was Goldman's (GS) top man for asset-management companies, and he exits just after leading the sale process for Frank Russell Co. A 17-year veteran at Goldman, Spofford moves on to Broadhaven Capital Partners, where he joins former Goldmanite Jerry von Dohlen. It's yet another move from the ranks of the big banks to either private-equity or boutique M&A advisors.
2014-6-30	GS	Goldman downgraded at Bernstein	No details are yet available, but Goldman Sachs (GS) is lower by 0.8% in somewhat active after-hours trade after Bernstein throws in the towel on its Outperform rating.
2014-6-26	GS	Rise of the naysayers at the banks	"Five years ago, if the risk group recommended against a strategy or product, it might just be one part of a debate," says Wells Fargo (WFC -0.4%) chief risk officer Michael Loughlin. Now, "when we say no, it's usually no." The naysayers are gaining power and multiplying across the banking industry as lenders bow to pressure from regulators to simplify and make safer their operations in the hope of preventing the next financial collapse. For its part, Wells has 2.3K employees in its core risk-management department, up from 1.7K two years ago, and the unit's annual budget has doubled to $500M over that period. Earlier this year, Goldman Sachs (GS -0.2%) made its chief risk officer part of the trader/rainmaker-dominated company management committee for the first time ever. The changes are expensive and come at a time of sluggish loan growth and trading revenue, but the banks have no choice as regulators wield the power given them by Dodd-Frank. KeyCorp (KEY +0.1%), for instance, used to pay loan officers for meeting  profit goals. Now those bonuses can be lost if their work falls short of new risk-management standards. It's no doubt one factor behind sharply lower loan commitments for construction and real-estate development. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, IAI, IAT, SEF, IYG, FXO, KBWB, FNCL, RKH, QABA, FINU, KCE, KRU, KBWR, RWW, RYF, KRS, KBWC, FINZ
2014-6-25	GS	Goldman merging retail and health-care investment banking teams	"We are seeing convergence between sub-sectors," write Goldman Sachs (GS) co-heads of investment banking Richard Gnodde, David Solomon, and John Weinberg in a memo announcing the change. The move comes amid a boom in deals this year, particularly in the pharmaceutical sector. Goldman is top-ranked in health care this year - the sector this quarter has seen $200B in deals announced, the most ever, says Bloomberg. Leading the new group will be co-heads of the retail team Kathy Elsesser and Francois-Xavier de Mallmann, along with health care chief Marshall Smith.
2014-6-25	GS	Report: Banks to lose billions from new swaps rules	Banks could lose up to $4.5B in annual revenue as new regulations alter how swaps are traded, according to a report from McKinsey & Co. That amount is equal to 35% of the $13B in revenue booked by banks from trading in rate derivatives, and it comes at a time when FICC business is already on the decline. At issue are new rules requiring swaps trade on electronic systems rather than over the phone ("Thanks, big boy"), and the greater transparency should bite into profits. To counter this, says McKinsey's Roger Rudisuli, banks will have to cut costs and realign teams to focus attention on fewer customers. The usual suspects make up the 5 largest U.S. swaps dealers: JPM, C, BAC, GS, and MS. ETFs: IAI, KCE, KBWC
2014-6-25	GS	Goldman makes two fixed-income hires	Hoping to shake things up in its sluggish bond trading unit, Goldman Sachs (GS) hires a couple of senior traders to head its European government bond trading business. The two are Andrea Casulli, previously a managing director and head of linear rates at UBS, and Garry Naughton, Deustche's ex-head of European government bond trading. It's a homecoming of sorts as both were Goldmanites earlier in their careers. The bank's fixed-income trading revenue of $2.85B in Q1 was down 11% from a year prior.
2014-6-23	GS	Goldman to offer Triple A with a spread	Investors' quest for spread and AAA meets investment banks' need for cheap financing: Goldman Sachs (GS +0.2%) this week is expected to start a road-show for a new type of bond deal - the Fixed Income Global Structural Collateral Obligation (FIGSCO). The paper will have a triple-recourse mechanism in which buyers will have recourse to a pool of assets backing the deal as well as an unsecured claim against Goldman and its joint issuer Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance. "This will offer value and we expect the big liquidity books to get on board," says a syndicate banker. "On the negative side, the deal may require more knowledge than a plain Triple A trade."
2014-6-18	GS	JPMorgan holds #1 spot in shrinking investment banking pie	JPMorgan's (JPM) Q1 investment banking revenue, according to Coalition, keeps the bank ahead of rivals like GS, DB, BAC, and C - all of whom tied for 2nd - but the amount of $5.9B was nearly 15% lower than the $6.9B posted a year ago. Revenue in fixed income, commodities, and currencies (FICC) of $3.2B put JPMorgan in the top spot in that category, but this figure was down more than 25% from 2013. In equities, JPMorgan's $1.4B in revenue tied it with Morgan Stanley (MS) for first place. In advisory business, it was Goldman Sachs and BAML - each bringing in about $1.5B - which led the way.
2014-6-17	GS	Goldman a contrarian buy?	The average rating on Goldman Sachs (GS +1.4%) of 3.21 (where a sell-side Buy gets a 5, a Hold gets a 3, and a Sell gets a 1), the lowest since Bloomberg started tracking the data in 2006. The 3.21 rating puts Goldman 68th among 83 financial stocks in the S&P 500. For the entire S&P 500, Goldman is ranked 440th. This comes, of course, as the decline in trading revenue at investment banks picks up steam, with Goldman more reliant on this activity than its competitors. "What drives activity in our business is volatility.," said Goldman president Gary Cohn at an investor conference recently. "If markets never move or don’t move, our clients really don’t need to transact.” Priced in? Goldman is down 4.9% YTD vs. Morgan Stanley's 3.8% gain and JPMorgan's 1.8% drop. On a year-over-year basis, Goldman is ahead just 2.7% vs. Morgan Stanley +24.1%, JPMorgan +6.6%, and the XLF +15%. Previously: Green shoots at Goldman
2014-6-17	GS	Green shoots at Goldman	"Positive sentiment is building" at Goldman Sachs (GS +1.3%), say Nomura's Steven Chubak and Sharon Leung, acknowledging headwinds in core businesses like trading, but noting growing contributions from higher-margin areas, and forced-Volcker sales which should bring capital relief. The team is not yet ready to pull the trigger on a Buy rating, citing valuation as a concern as they leave their rating at Neutral. For the year, Goldman is lower by 6% vs. a gain of 3% for the S&P financials.
2014-6-12	GS	Goldman, Bain Capital to pay settlement in LBO lawsuit	Goldman Sachs (GS) will pay $67M and Bain Capital will pay $54M to settle a lawsuit claiming they conspired not to outbid each other on companies they wished to buy. The settlement fees will go to the former shareholders of the companies they acquired in the LBOs. Five other firms are also accused of conspiring not to jump each others' deals, including the Blackstone Group (BX), Carlyle Group (CG), KKR (KKR), Silver Lake Partners and TPG Capital Management.
2014-6-11	GS	Lloyd Blankfein talks energy and politics	Goldman Sachs' (GS) Lloyd Blankfein is hitting the interview circuit this week, and some of his most interesting comments involve natural gas drilling. North America needs to take advantage of its strong energy position, Blankfein says, concerned about U.S. regulatory uncertainty: "If investors have to worry about politicians changing the rules around natural gas drilling, they will be more hesitant to put their money into growth opportunities." But he hesitates to throw his weight behind the Keystone XL pipeline, sounding more like some politicians when saying “we have to reconcile the schism between the people who are only thinking in terms of the environment and the people who are only thinking in terms of supporting the economy, and get some sort of accommodation between the two.” Enjoy the current quiet market, because it can't last forever, and there's always a risk of "some exogenous event... that's going to cause people to have to reset their portfolios." On his own company, he attributes Goldman's success to its ability to "aspire less to foresee the future and more to be a great contingency planner."
2014-6-5	GS	Goldman Sachs boosts Asia M&A team	Goldman Sachs (GS) is boosting its mergers team in Asia after ranking number one in the region so far this year by working on a record of $53.8B in deal making. The group has worked this year on deals including the sale of Ranbaxy to Sun Pharmaceuticals for $3.2B and Lenovo’s $2.3B acquisition of IBM’s server business. The investment bank has created a new position of vice-chairman of the investment banking division for Asia Pacific excluding Japan. Richard Campbell-Breeden will be appointed to the role, and will also become the chairman of its M&A group.
2014-6-2	GS	Goldman names new Chief Strategy Officer	Currently global head of Goldman's (GS -0.4%) financing group, Stephen Scherr will take over as Chief Strategy Officer at the start of 2015, replacing Andrew Chisolm who is retiring after three decades with the bank, according to an internal memo. Scherr has been in a number positions at Goldman, including COO for the investment banking division. “As we advance the firm’s global strategy, Stephen will identify and help execute on opportunities to grow and build upon our strong client franchise across our core businesses," write Lloyd Blankfein and Gary Cohn.
2014-6-2	GS	KKR terminates first stock hedge fund	KKR (KKR) has terminated KKR Equities Strategies - its first stock hedge fund launched less than three years ago. The fund was made up of a dozen former Goldman Sachs (GS) traders, and was started by KKR to diversify its business. The termination was decided due to "lack of scale" and focus on other hedge fund products. Since its start in 2011, the fund reported an average annualized return of about 5%. At of the start of May, KKR Equities Strategies had about $510M under management. A third of the clients were from KKR, and there were less than 20 external investors.
2014-5-30	GS	Trading decline at banks is secular, says RBC analyst	"The market has permanently shrunk," says RBC's Gerard Cassidy of fixed-income trading business at banks. FICC income of $22B in Q1 was off 37% from a year ago, and updates recently from the likes of Citigroup (C +0.6%), JPMorgan (JPM -0.5%), and Goldman Sachs (GS -0.4%) suggest Q2 could be worse. Of the two reasons - a new regulatory regime putting the squeeze on bank business practices and the absence of volatility, one may go away, but the other isn't. The new regime has banks cutting staff and restructuring units - especially from the likes of European players like Barclays (BCS +0.2%), Credit Suisse (CS +0.3%), and UBS (UBS -0.7%). “What these companies have decided to do, some more dramatic more than others, is restructure their business,” says Cassidy. “You just have to manage your business differently by realigning your cost structure to the new level of revenues due to the changes form rules, regulations and laws." ETFs: IAI, KCE, KBWC
2014-5-29	GS	Report: More job cuts on the table at Goldman	At issue is the continuing sharp decline in FICC activity (especially fixed income) - noted by a number of banking industry executives at investor conferences this week. "What drives activity in our business is volatility,” said Goldman Sachs (GS -0.6%) COO Gary Cohn yesterday. “If markets never move or don’t move, our clients really don’t need to transact... We’re not just waiting for things to get better.” Previously: Goldman's Cohn: "Abnormal" lack of action in markets
2014-5-28	GS	Goldman's Cohn: "Abnormal" lack of action in markets	“What drives activity in our business is volatility," says Goldman (GS -1.1%) #2 Gary Cohn, presenting at the Bernstein conference. "If markets never move or don’t move, our clients really don’t need to transact.” Presentation slides Not only is the VIX well below its average of the past decade, but not a lot is happening in FX either. Slide 3 notes the euro/dollar pair this year has traded in its tightest monthly range since the common currency's inception. Cohn says Goldman has been gaining market share in FICC, but the pie is shrinking, meaning no boost yet to revenue. Previously: Citi sees larger-than-expected drop in trading revenue
2014-5-23	GS	Goldman with big D.C. push for commodities	Fighting hard to hang on to its commodities business, Goldman Sachs (GS) 2nd-in-command Gary Cohn met with lawmakers this month including bank critic Sherrod Brown and Fed officials to explain why Wall Street's presence in commodities is actually good for Main Street. Commodity consumers complain banks have the ability to restrict supply and drive up prices, but during the meeting Cohn argued Goldman's role as a one-stop shop - maintaining inventories, lending money, providing hedging - is a boon to the process and the economy. Earlier this week, Goldman put its metals warehousing business up for sale, maybe in the hopes Brown and others will declare victory and go home.
2014-5-22	GS	Goldman agrees to sale of designated market-maker unit	Dutch high-speed trading firm IMC Financial Markets will take over Goldman Sach's (GS) post on the floor of the BIg Board. Terms weren't disclosed, through the WSJ reports the sale was for less than $30M. IMC also plans to hire about 15 brokers from Goldman, which acquired the specialist unit as part of its $6.5B purchase of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg in 2000.
2014-5-20	GS	Goldman puts metals warehousing business on the block	Purchased four years ago for $550M, Metro International Trade Services has been a cash cow for Goldman (GS -0.9%), and the bank until now has resisted the political, legal, and regulatory pressures to exit at least part of its commodities business. The move, however, looks to be about getting rid of one of the more contentious units, but not a backing away from the J Aron franchise which is one of the Street's biggest commodities traders. "Metro is not strategic to our client activities, and the firm has concluded that this is the right time to explore a sale, given recent interest by potential buyers," says a Goldman spokesman.
2014-5-16	GS	Notes from Goldman's annual meeting	"That's amazing," says Goldman Sachs (GS -0.4%) chief Lloyd Blankfein after not receiving a single question from shareholders at the annual meeting today in Texas. It's the first time since at least the financial crisis management hasn't been queried at this event. In other news, roughly 83% of shareholders approved the executive pay package. Asked by reporters about whether Goldman is feeling pressure to exit or whittle down its commodities and fixed income trading businesses, Blankfein tweaked rivals who are doing just that: “I’ve been doing this over 30 years. I think it’s a vanity to say that something that has worked is not going to work from this moment forward.” Perhaps the most interesting part of the meeting is the location itself - Irving, Texas is a long way from Goldman's NYC headquarters. Some say the bank did this to avoid questions/protests, but Goldman - which has been busily expanding in lower-cost locations - says it wants to highlight this trend.
2014-5-15	GS	Well-connected Asian rainmaker exits Goldman	Roger Ng, a Malaysian Chinese known for his connections to politicians and tycoons in Malaysia, chose to leave Goldman Sachs (GS) of his own accord, and wasn't dismissed, according to the WSJ's source. Ng helped Goldman land a contract with economic development fund 1Malaysia Development Bhd., or 1MDB that reaped large profits for the bank. The deal became a political football in elections last year, with the opposition party accusing Goldman of overcharging fees. Ng joined Goldman in 2005, coming over from Deutsche Bank.
2014-5-9	GS	NY AG reportedly probing dark pools	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.2%), Barclays (BCS -1%), and Credit Suisse (CS -1.2%) are among the banks NY Attorney General Schneidermann has requested information from about their use of dark pools, reports Dow Jones. Dark pools are systems set up by the banks to allow clients to trade large blocks of stock outside of the major exchanges. Earlier this year, Goldman sent out checks to clients after discovering errors in trades in its Sigma X dark pool - the world's largest -  from back in 2011. It was also reported that Goldman was considering selling Sigma X, a move management has denied. Previously: Goldman considers shuttering dark pool
2014-5-9	GS	Goldman confirms probe of overseas hiring practices; HFT investigation too	In its 10-Q, Goldman Sachs (GS) says it expects litigation expenses to remain "high" and discloses a boost to reserves to $3.7B from $3.6M. Rumored a few days ago, Goldman is indeed under scrutiny for possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The bank also says it's under investigation over high-frequency trading, though it didn't specify which agency is having a look.
2014-5-7	GS	Investigation of banks' Asian hiring practices expands	It started late last year amid a report of JPMorgan's (JPM +1.3%) practice of hiring children of well-connected Chinese, but the WSJ reports the SEC is seeking information from a host of banks - including Credit Suisse (CS -0.3%), Goldman Sachs (GS +0.8%), Morgan Stanley (MS), Citigroup (C +0.5%), and UBS - about their Asian hiring. Fortunately, this sort of thing never happens in the U.S. At issue are possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act which bars U.S. companies from anything that could resemble a bribe to foreign officials. The probe has rattled bankers in the region, says the Journal, with some choosing to walk away from potential deals which could come under scrutiny at some point.
2014-5-5	GS	JPMorgan warning hits the big banks	A check of the global banks finds the group pacing market declines in morning action after Friday night's warning on Q2 trading revenue from JPMorgan (JPM -2.2%). Nomura's Steven Chubak is first out with lower JPMorgan earnings estimates. Jim Cramer sums up sentiment: "This has been a house of pain. You can't own these right now. You just can't." Morgan Stanley (MS -1.9%), Goldman Sachs (GS -1.5%), Citigroup (C -1.2%), and Bank of America (BAC -1%), Deutsche Bank (DB -1.2%). Far less trading dependent than the other Too Big Too Fails is Wells Fargo (WFC -0.2%). The iShares DJ U.S. Broker-Dealer ETF (IAI -1.2%) XLF -0.7%, KBE -0.8% ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, PFI, FXO, FNCL, KBWB, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, PSCF, FINZ, KBWC
2014-5-3	GS	Cyclical or secular? JPMorgan warns again on trading business	With Q1 results for the global banks just in the books, JPMorgan (JPM) becomes the first to warn on trading revenues in Q2, expecting markets revenue to slip 20% after declining 17% in Q1. SEC Form 10-Q As in the past, the biggest driver of the slide is weakness in fixed income, currencies and commodities (FICC) as investors continue to shy from exotic fixed-income vehicles contrived by bankers, and instead favor less profitable (for the bond desks) government and high-grade corporate bonds. There's also new regulations which have forced banks away from lucrative businesses like energy trading. "I don't look at the $5 billion in markets revenue and cry in my soup," said CEO Jamie Dimon on Q1's earnings call (the bank did $5.37B in trading business in Q1), stressing his belief that the current tough time for trading is cyclical not secular. JPMorgan fell 1.5% in after hours trading following the news last night. Morgan Stanley (MS) -0.5%, Goldman Sachs (GS) -0.1%, Bank of America (BAC) -0.7%, Citigroup (C) -0.4%: "Certainly J.P. Morgan's forecast does not bode well for the other big banks," says RBC's Gerard Cassidy.
2014-5-2	GS	Fed special unit to give extra scrutiny to 15 firms	Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) are on a Fed list of 15 U.S. and foreign financial firms that "may pose elevated risks to U.S. financial stability" and so will receive extra supervision by a cross-disciplinary special unit called the Large Institution Supervision Coordinating Committee. Other firms on the list include JPMorgan (JPM), Bank of America (BAC), AIG (AIG), GE (GE), Citigroup (C), Wells Fargo (WFC), State Street (STT), Prudential Financial (PRU), Barclays (BCS), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB) and UBS (UBS). As a major clearing and custody bank, Bank of New York Mellon (BK), will also receive the extra attention.
2014-4-29	GS	Goldman and Morgan to open Swiss books for DOJ	The Swiss units of Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) agree to open their books on Swiss accounts set up for U.S. clients, reports the WSJ. In return for entering the so-called "category 2" program, the two won't face prosecution which could have resulted in fines equal to up to 50% of the value of their undeclared accounts. If it turns out they haven't helped Americans evade taxes, the banks could be downgraded to "category 3," and won't face any penalties. The DOJ says more than one-third of Swiss banks have committed to category 2. "It's a tricky thing to just say, I'm sure we had nothing," says Martin Naville, CEO of the Swiss American Chamber of Commerce. "Better safe than sorry." Goldman's Swiss private bank had about $12B in assets under supervision as of the end of 2013, and Morgan's had $50.7B in AUM, though much of that was from branches in Hong Kong and Singapore. Citigroup and JPMorgan also have Swiss operations, but haven't yet entered any DOJ programs.
2014-4-29	GS	Energy Future files for Chapter 11	Energy Future Holdings has finally made its long-awaited filing for bankruptcy protection following months of talks over the Texas utility's debt burden of more than $40B, which is a legacy of its massive LBO in 2007. Energy Future filed for Chapter 11 prior to a deadline this week for the payment of $100M in debt. The company hopes to use its Texas Competitive Electric Holdings unit, which sells power in wholesale markets, to receive debt forgiveness of $25B. Energy Future's owners are KKR (KKR), Goldman Sachs Capital Partners (GS) and TPG Capital. One group of creditors includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, and another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners. Previous
2014-4-23	GS	Goldman, JPMorgan seek dismissal of aluminum price-fixing suits	The commercial buyers and aluminum consumers lack standing to sue under antitrust laws, say the banks, because they did not store metal in the their warehouses or trade on the LME. Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM) were sued for allegedly conspiring to cut supply and raise the price of aluminum from May 2009 on. Last month, a federal judge allowed three groups of plaintiffs to file separate lawsuits seeking class action status. A hearing is scheduled for Friday.
2014-4-23	GS	Goldman to profit as competitors exit commodities	“The more banks that exit commodities trading, the less competitive it becomes for the banks which stick with it,” says Sandler O'Neill's Jeffery Harte. "[Goldman Sachs has] the bigger franchise to be a winner. It now has a much bigger piece of a much smaller pie.” While Barclays has its commodities business on the block, and JPMorgan have already agreed to unload at least parts of their operations, Goldman - whose three top execs got their start at the bank's commodity unit - is holding firm and stands to gain market share. “Right now it feels like we’re starting to maybe see the beginnings of some marginal benefit of competitors exiting parts of our business that otherwise, quite frankly, they had charged in with excess," said GS CFO Harvey Schwartz following earnings results last week, proudly noting Goldman has been in the game since 1981.
2014-4-23	GS	Goldman Asia prime brokerage staff exit amid lower pay	The departures include Alain Bordoni, who was a managing director, and Mark Wittet, who was an executive director, reports Bloomberg. Most of the vacated positions have been filled with internal transfers or new hires, according to a source. The exits come as Goldman boss Lloyd Blankfein trimmed compensation to just 37% of revenue in 2013, the 2nd-lowest ratio since the company came public in 1999. Goldman (GS) is ranked as Asia's largest prime broker, with AsiaHedge estimating it had 179 mandates and $24.6B of assets one year ago.
2014-4-17	GS	Morgan vs. Goldman ... Which is the better buy?	On the surface, Morgan Stanley's (MS +3.5%) Q1 results appear far better than those of Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%), with FICC revenues up 9% Y/Y vs. a decline at Goldman. But Oppenheimer's Chris Kotowski notes Morgan had an especially easy comparison since 2013 Q1 was particularly weak. "Nonetheless, it is always nice to see year-over-year growth, and Morgan Stanley's is the best we have seen so far." Kotwoski also takes note of return on tangible common equity - 11.1% at Goldman vs. 10.9% at Morgan. Despite the lower ROE, Morgan trades for 10.3x 2015 estimates vs. 9.4x for Goldman. Investors may want to have to take a harder look at which one to buy.
2014-4-17	GS	Goldman beats despite trading slowdown	EPS of $4.02 compares with $4.29 a year ago and $4.60 in Q4. Revenue of $9.33B falls from $10.09B. Annualized ROE of 10.9% in Q1. Investment banking revenue of $1.78B up 13% Y/Y, with financial advisory revenue of $682M up 41%, equity underwriting revenue of $437M up12%, debt underwriting of $660M down 5%. Institutional client services revenue of $4.446B down 13% Y/Y, with FICC revenue of $2.85B down 11%, not terribly out of line with dim expectations, but Morgan Stanley and BofA managed to report gains in this segment (Citi and JPMorgan had declines). Given the fixed to shrinking pie size, Goldman lost some share during the Q. Investing & Lending revenue of $1.529B downb 26% Y/Y. Investment management revenue of $1.152B up 9%. Operating expenses of $6.31B off 6% from a year ago, with compensation and benefits expense of $4.01B down 8%. Compensation and benefits as a percentage of revenue of 43% is flat. Total headcount down 1% during the quarter. CC at 9:30 ET GS +2% premarket
2014-4-17	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $0.59, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs (GS): Q1 EPS of $4.02 beats by $0.59. Revenue of $9.33B (+92367.8% Y/Y) beats by $630M.
2014-4-17	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ADS, ALSN, AN, BAX, BBT, BHI, BLK, BX, CMG, COL, CY, DD, DOV, FCFS, FCS, FHN, FITB, GE, GS, HLSS, HON, KEY, MAT, MS, ORB, PEP, PM, PPG, PVTB, SAP, SHW, SLB, SNA, SON, SYNT, TSM, TZOO, UNH, UNP, WBS, WIT, WSO
2014-4-16	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ADS, ALSN, AN, BAX, BBT, BHI, BLK, BX, CMG, COL, CY, DD, DOV, FCFS, FCS, FHN, FITB, GE, GS, HLSS, HON, KEY, MAT, MS, ORB, PEP, PM, PPG, PVTB, SAP, SHW, SLB, SNA, SON, SYNT, TSM, TZOO, UNH, UNP, WBS, WIT, WSO
2014-4-14	GS	Blackstone teams with Goldman to buy Ipreo Holdings	In another case of private-equity firms making a deal with each other, Blackstone (BX) and the merchant banking arm of Goldman Sachs (GS) agree to buy Ipreo Holdings from KKR. Terms weren't disclosed, but DealBook reports a price of nearly $1B. The rise in private transactions comes as P-E firms balk at the high prices for publicly traded targets. KKR purchased Ipreo - which specializes in software for capital markets, including programs to help track equity and debt offerings - nearly three years ago from another P-E firm. Since then, Ipreo has boosted revenue by 50% and acquired to smaller firms.
2014-4-11	GS	What do JPMorgan results mean for some other financial names?	Extrapolating JPMorgan's Q1 results to some other banks, KBW sees a modest positive "read-across" to Citigroup (C -0.6%) and a neutral to Goldman Sachs (GS -1.6%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -1.6%). As for JPMorgan's results in asset management, KBW says a 9% Q/Q drop in revenues provides a "modestly disappointing," but not "a significant negative" read-across for peers. The team's favorites in the sector remain Affiliated Managers (AMG -0.7%), Invesco (IVZ -0.3%), and BlackRock (BLK -0.1%). JPMorgan earnings coverage
2014-4-9	GS	Goldman considers shuttering dark pool	Sigma X is one of the world's largest private stock-trading venues - or dark pools - and conversations among Goldman Sachs (GS -1.3%) executives have broached the subject of shutting it down, reports the WSJ. A move by Goldman to do so would no doubt push other banks to take similar action. About 14% of all stock trading took place in dark pools in January, but a rough patch has been hit of late. Goldman last month acknowledged and paid a 2011 pricing malfunction, competition has increased, and recent tech glitches at exchanges show the risks involved with operating private trading platforms. Then there's the Michael Lewis book on HFT, and the renewed investor and regulatory scrutiny it's brought on. Stock trading generated $7.17B in business for Goldman in 2013, but the revenue from Sigma X isn't broken out.
2014-4-8	GS	New rules forces largest banks to hold another $68B in capital	Finalizing the criteria on the eight largest banks' leverage ratios - a minimum 5% at the holding company level and 6% at the bank subsidiary level - U.S. regulators impose a far tougher standard than international norms of 3%. The eight affected: BK, BAC, C, GS, JPM, MS, STT, WFC. The regulators at work were the Fed, the FDIC, and the OCC, and the Fed's Dan Tarullo indicates he wants to go further, signaling the central bank may boost the risk-based capital surcharge to a higher level than the international standard. The most to lose in this scenario would be investment banks like Goldman and Morgan Stanley who don't have the deposit bases of their retail brethren. Banks have until January 1, 2018 to comply with the new rule. Related ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, IAI, SEF, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, FNCL, FINU, KCE, RWW, RYF, PSCF, FINZ, KBWC
2014-4-8	GS	Regulators set to vote on rule to increase bank leverages	Regulators are due to vote today on whether to increase the "leverage ratio" for the eight largest U.S. banks to 5-6% of their total assets. The Basel III standard is 3%. The move would force banks to add tens of billions of dollars in loss-absorbing capital, although many firms have already been bulking up in anticipation of the rule change. Meanwhile, the Fed has given banks two extra years - until July 2017 - to ensure that their collateralized loan obligations (CLO) comply with the Volcker rule's restrictions on speculative investments. The extension is a reaction banks' fears that selling their CLOs would lead to substantial losses. Relevant tickers: JPM, C, BAC, WFC, GS, MS, BK, STT, ZION Related ETFs: FAS, XLF, FAZ, UYG, KRE, KBE, VFH, IYF, SEF, IAT, IYG, PFI, FXO, KBWB, RKH, QABA, RWW, KRU, FINU, KBWR, RYF, PSCF, FNCL, KRS, FINZ
2014-4-7	GS	Preferreds performance leaves them exposed to higher rates	Investors in bank preferred securities (PGF -0.1%), (PFF -0.1%) may want to shift into shorter durations, says Barclays credit strategist Shobhit Gupta, as a strong first quarter has left their yields more exposed to interest rate risk. Particularly interesting are some new-gen securities trading past their first call date and paying floating coupons. Generally trading below par, they have negative duration. Most also have minimum coupon floors ranging from 3.5%-5.57%, making it a little more challenging to figure their rate sensitivity. Gupta's favorites are floating-rate preferreds from U.S. Bancorp (USB -1.3%) and Goldman Sachs (GS -2.7%), while those from Wells Fargo (WFC -1.7%) look rich thanks to their high coupon floor.
2014-4-7	GS	Big banks to contest EU derivatives charges	Nine months ago, the European Commission accused 13 banks of blocking Deutshce Boerse (DBOEY) and CME from entering the lucrative CDS business between 2006-09, but the banks, reports Reuters, are set to fight those charges at a closed-door hearing next month. Should they lose, the banks could be subject to fines of up to 10% of their global CDS turnover - not a small amount given the size of the market. Those charged and expected to fight: C, GS, DB, BAC, BCS, BNPQY, CS, HSBC, JPM, MS, RBS, and UBS.
2014-4-4	GS	Blankfein gets biggest paycheck since crisis	Goldman Sachs (GS -1.6%) CEO Lloyd Blankfein received $23M in salary and bonus in 2013, and is eligible to earn another $6M in coming years if certain targets are hit. The $23M is most for any of the CEOs at the country's six largest banks (he received $70M in 2007). Breaking it down, Blankfein earned $2M in salary, and a $21M bonus - consisting of about $14.7M in restricted stock and $6.2M in cash. Goldman's stock gained 41% in 2013 vs. the S&P 500 +32%, and the XLF +35%. President Gary Cohn and CFO Harvey Schwartz each received $21M in salary and bonus.
2014-4-3	GS	Sinopec reportedly picks Goldman Sachs for $30B unit sale	Sinopec (SNP) is working with Goldman Sachs (GS) on the sale of a 30% stake in its retail assets, which includes China’s biggest network of fuel stations, Bloomberg reported earlier. Such a deal could raise as much as $30B, which would be the biggest asset sale by a Chinese state-owned company. China Petrochemical, SNP's parent company, raised $5B yesterday from the biggest offering of dollar-denominated notes by an Asian issuer in more than a decade; Goldman was among banks that arranged the bond sale and was sole manager of SNP’s $3.1B share offering in Hong Kong last year.
2014-4-2	GS	Goldman's Gilday exiting for Morgan Stanley; NYSE floor ops being given away	Formerly Goldman's (GS +0.7%) head of EMEA syndicate and leveraged capital markets, Ian Gilday took on a new role there last year as head of origination and collateralized loan obligations for the region. Reuters reports he's exiting for an as yet unknown role at Morgan Stanely (MS +1%), though it's speculated he could fill the hole left by the departure of Mark Walsh, formerly co-head of European leveraged finance (he left for Credit Suisse). In other Goldman news, the bank is in talks with Dutch firm IMC Financial Markets for the sale of its NYSE floor-trading unit for basically peanuts. The business - once part of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg - was purchased by Goldman in 2000 for $6.5B, but the price being talked about now is just $300M. Times have changed.
2014-4-2	GS	Bank estimates trimmed at Nomura	"Mixed economic data, geopolitical volatility, and uncertainty surrounding Fed policy actions have weighed on capital markets revenues, with declines exceeding levels indicated by public proxies," says analyst Steven Chubak, cutting his estimates on the TBTFs ahead of Q1 earnings season. "We anticipate the greatest cuts at the banks with heavier gearing to capital markets (e.g. GS), though none of the Universals are immune; we expect further downgrades across the group. 2014 consensus reflects a level of optimism not supported by recent company guidance or by trends evident in public proxies." Goldman - whose price target is also cut by $5 to $163 - FY14 EPS is estimated at $14.62 vs. $14.95 previously. Bank of America (BAC) $0.97 vs. $1.22. Citigroup (C) $4.60 vs. $4.96. JPMorgan (JPM) $5.29 vs. $5.35. Morgan Stanley (MS) $2.23 to $2.29. Chubak, however, continues to rate BofA and Citi as Buys, and the others Neutral. ETFs: KCE, KBWC
2014-4-2	GS	Energy Future reorg plan to nearly wipe out P-E owners' stakes	KKR, GS Capital Partners, and TPG Capital acquired Energy Future at the peak of the buyout boom in 2007 - more or less a bet, using $40.1B in debt, extrapolating the rise in natural gas prices into the future. At the time, it was the largest-ever LBO. The three may end up accepting as little as 1% of the equity in the business as it completes its bankruptcy restructuring. The deal would also give full legal releases to the three P-E players, who a year ago had hoped to push a plan through giving them 15% of the company.
2014-4-2	GS	EU slaps cable cartel with €302M fine	The EU has fined Goldman Sachs (GS), leading cablemaker Prysmian (PRYMF), Nexans (NEXNY) and eight cable firms a combined €302M ($416M) for operating a cartel. Prysmian was hit with the largest penalty, €104.6M, which includes a joint €37.3M fine with Goldman Sachs (GS). Another cartel member was General Cable (BGC).
2014-4-1	GS	Bloomberg: Goldman seeking buyer for NYSE market-making ops	Bloomberg reports Goldman (GS +0.9%) has held talks with potential buyers of its NYSE-designated market-making unit. The sale process is said to be in its early stages. Goldman acquired the business in 2000 via its $5.4B acquisition of Spear, Leeds & Kellogg.
2014-4-1	GS	Goldman moves aside FX head to make way for new hire	Amid investigations, suspensions, and dismissals across a number of banks over suspected currency-rigging, Goldman Sachs (GS +1.2%) is moving Guy Saidanberg - its head of global FX - to the role of co-head of commodities to make way for the appointment of former JPMorgan banker Kayhan Mirza to the FX role, reports Reuters, citing an internal memo. Currency trading floors are being emptied out and recruitment firms and bank sources say there is a sizable reluctance to hire those with experience as they may end up being tainted by the rigging allegations.
2014-4-1	GS	Investors sue a dozen banks for currency manipulation	A group of investors from across the U.S. and Caribbean have filed a class-action lawsuit against 12 banks for allegedly colluding to manipulate currency rates. The firms being sued include Bank of America (BAC), Barclays (BCS), Citigroup (C), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS), HSBC (HSBC), JPMorgan (JPM), Morgan Stanley (MS) and RBS (RBS). The investors include city and state pension plans such as the City of Philadelphia and the State-Boston Retirement System. The suit adds to multiple investigations by international authorities into forex manipulation, the latest being the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
2014-3-31	GS	Too Big To Fail not solved, says IMF	Absent reforms, another financial crisis is likely to leave taxpayers on the hook for hundreds of billions, warns the IMF, estimating the world's biggest banks receive up to $590B in implicit public subsidies because of their TBTF status. Said subsidies include bankers who still have a "heads I win, tails you lose" attitude, and investors who lend at lower cost to banks than they might otherwise. The IMF calculated the size of the subsidies by comparing the CDS prices and credit ratings across larger and smaller banks. While the amount has fallen since the crisis, it still remains sizable. "All in all ... the expected probability that systemically important banks will be bailed out remains high in all regions." Subsidies for the biggest players are "like insurance for which banks don't need to pay a premium," says senior IMF analyst Gaston Gelos. Full report (starting on pg. 34) Among the usual suspects: BBVA, BBD, BAC, BCS, BK, BNS, C, CS, DB, GS, HSBC, IBN, ING, JPM, LYG, MS, NBG, RY, STT, TD, UBS, WFC, WBK.
2014-3-28	GS	Mortgage suit against Goldman moves forward	Goldman Sachs (GS) must face a proposed class-action suit over MBS first launched by Detroit's police and fire retirement system in 2010, rules a federal judge. The lawsuit is among thousands faced by Goldman and other banks over the collapse in the prices of these securities during the housing bust. In this case, U.S. District Judge Miriam Cedarbaum said offering documents for the securities were "affirmatively misleading" and denied Goldman's dismissal request.
2014-3-26	GS	BofA and Goldman approved for capital returns after modifying plans	Both Bank of America (BAC) and Goldman Sachs (GS) saw their Tier 1 leverage ratios drop too low with their original capital plans, and were only approved after lowering their requests. BofA -0.9%, Goldman flat in after-hours trade. Full CCAR Previous coverage: 25 of 30 capital return plans approved
2014-3-26	GS	Fed set to say whether approves bank plans to return money to investors	The Federal Reserve is due to say today whether it approves banks' plans to pay dividends and/or repurchase stock. The process is spread out over a week so that banks can alter their programs if they don't receive Fed authorization. Last year, the Fed told JPMorgan (JPM) and Goldman Sachs (GS) to change their capital-allocation plans. The Fed's decision will come a week after it said that 29 out of 30 banks had passed its stress tests. Relevant tickers include C, MS, BAC, BK, AXP, COF, C, FITB, PNC, RF, STT, STI, USB, WFC, ZION. ETFs of interest: KBE, KBWB, KRE, KCE, KBWC, XLF, IYF, PFI, VFH, RYF, RWW, FAS, UYG, FAZ, SKF, SEF, IAI, FXO, PSCF, KBWD, KBWB, IYG, FINU, FINZ.
2014-3-20	GS	More on Fed stress tests	Everybody (except Zions) passed, but among the Too Big To Fail banks, Bank of America (BAC) is the weakest performer under the Fed's severely adverse scenario, with its tier 1 common ratio dropping to 6.3%. Citigroup (C) goes to 7%, Goldman Sachs (GS) to 8.9%, JPMorgan (JPM) to 6.7%, Morgan Stanley (MS) to 7.6%, and Wells Fargo (WFC) to 8.2%. The average tier 1 ratio for all banks tested is 8.4%. There's not a whole lot of after-hours movement in any of the TBTF names. ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, FNCL, FINU, RWW, RYF, PSCF, FINZ Full report
2014-3-20	GS	Banks wait on Fed stress tests	The Fed is due to release the results of its annual stress test on 30 banks today, with most expected to pass. If the banks, which include JPMorgan (JPM), Citigroup (C) and Morgan Stanley (MS), are found wanting, they will have a few days to alter any plans to return money to shareholders - the Fed is due to say next week whether it will approve firms' dividend and/or stock-buyback programs. Relevant tickers include GS, BAC, BK, AXP, COF, C, FITB, PNC, RF, STT, STI, USB, WFC. ETFs of interest: KBE, KBWB, KRE, KCE, KBWC, XLF, IYF, PFI, VFH, RYF, RWW, FAS, UYG, FAZ, SKF, SEF, IAI, FXO, PSCF, KBWD, KBWB, IYG, FINU, FINZ.
2014-3-18	GS	The TBTFs join to fight proposed bank tax	Half a million doesn't buy much anymore. House Ways and Means Committee Chairman Dave Camp (R, Mich.) - a sizable recipient of Wall Street donations - has the large financial institutions displeased with his proposal to levy a tax on them. He says they deserve to pay up for the lower borrowing costs they receive because of their perceived government backstop, a notion the banks dispute. The proposal is part of larger tax reform expected to get serious discussion after the mid-term elections, and a Camp spokeswoman says the overall plan will make banks "some of the biggest winners." In discussions to hold a fundraiser for the NRC, Goldman Sachs (GS +0.9%) reportedly opted out over its concerns. Smaller bankers join in with their much larger brethren: "We're going to beat this like a rented mule," says Cam Fine, who heads the Independent Community Bankers Association. "This is a united effort." Camp's tax would apply to financial firms with assets greater than $500B, levying a 0.035% tax on total assets each year. Among those affected (in addition to Goldman) are AIG, BAC, C, GE Capital, JPM MET, MS, PRU, and WFC. The largest could pay more than $2B per year under the plan.
2014-3-13	GS	Discovering errors, Goldman reportedly refunds customers	Goldman Sachs (GS -1.2%) has sent money to clients and other Street firms who used its Sigma X dark trading pool for making equity trades in August 2011, reports Bloomberg. The refunds likely aren't significant when measured against the bank's trading revenue, but do show the risks to operators of the vehicles created to allow investors to trade big blocks of stocks without letting news of the trades move prices. Sigma X is one of the larger dark pools in the U.S., accounting for 1% of total daily trading in January, according to Rosenblatt Securities.
2014-3-7	GS	Biomet files for IPO	Biomet has filed to raise up to $100M in an IPO seven years after being taken private for $11.4B. The final size of the offering will probably be higher, with Reuters previously reporting that the firm could look to raise over $1B. The medical-device maker didn't say how many shares it would sell, nor the exchange it would list on, although it did say it would trade under the ticker symbol BMET. The company's products include dental implants and artificial hip joints, and it competes with Smith & Nephew and Stryker. Biomet's main owners are Blackstone (BX), KKR (KKR), Goldman Sach's (GS) P-E arm, and TPG Capital. ETF: IPO
2014-3-6	GS	Citi only major bank trading below tangible book value	At about $49, Ciitgroup's (C +1%) stock sells for more than a 10% discount to tangible book value. Sitting at the top valuation-wise is Wells Fargo (WFC +0.6%), trading for nearly double its tangible book. Citi has been the weakest performer of the TBTFs this year, with its exposure to jittery emerging markets as good of an excuse as any, but the shares were trading below book before that. Trading at about 1.2x tangible book are Bank of America (BAC +1%), Morgan Stanley (MS +0.6%), and Goldman Sachs (GS +0.9%), while JPMorgan (JPM +1.1%) sells for 1.4x tangible book.
2014-3-5	GS	Big banks sport big gains ahead of stress test results	Buying the rumor? On a flattish day for the major averages, the Too Big To Fail banks are ignoring a continued slowdown in markets revenue this quarter, and instead partying ahead of what may be the imminent release of the Fed's stress test results (perhaps Friday). About one week later will be CCAR results at which the Fed gives the thumbs up or thumbs down on the banks' capital return plans. Word is the tests are tougher this year, but bank capital levels are also improved. Leading today is Bank of America (BAC +3%) - now within about one percent of a 4-year high. Others: Morgan Stanley (MS +2.8%), Goldman Sachs (GS +1.8%), Ciitgroup (C +1%), JPMorgan (JPM +1.5%), and Wells Fargo (WFC +0.6%). Also subject to the stress tests are a number of regional lenders, not to mention credit card players - they're mixed in today's action. Related ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, IAI, IAT, SEF, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, RKH, QABA, FNCL, FINU, KCE, KRU, RWW, KBWR, RYF, PSCF, KRS, FINZ, KBWC
2014-3-5	GS	Investment bankers naturally hopeful for 2014 business	“The tone among key decision makers - CEOs, CFOs and then, most importantly, board members - is markedly more positive today than it was a year ago," says Morgan Stanley (MS) global co-head of investment banking Mark Eichorn, whose firm finished in 3rd place in Bloomberg's ranking of investment bank fees in 2013. Debt and equity issuance gained 4.9% to an estimated $53.4B last year, the highest since 2007, but well below the $86.9B of that bubbly year. Leading the way again is JPMorgan (JPM), which raked in $3.87B in fees last year. Second place again went to Goldman Sachs (GS) with $3.77B, and third (again) to Morgan with $3.71B. The three have held the top three spots since 2009. This year is off to a strong start thanks to the Comcast/TWC deal and the rise in the activist investor could mean more business for the bankers who advise boards and managements. "The big difference this year is the absence of big macro crises,” says BAML's Christian Meissner, whose firm finished 4th with $3.52B. “Maybe something will pop up and change that view. But we’re seeing the green shoots of recovery and the absence of significant tail risk.”
2014-3-4	GS	An early look shows trading revenue still a struggle at IBs	An early barometer for the investment banks (GS, MS), Jefferies Group - now a part of Leucadia National (LUK) - estimates investment banking revenue rose 42% this quarter from a year ago, but fixed-income revenue continues its weak trend, falling 17%. Speaking at an investor conference yesterday, Citigroup (C) CFO John Gerspach said he expects trading revenue to drop by a "high mid-teens percentage" this quarter. His comments come days after JPMorgan - at its investor day - flagged continuing trading revenue weakness on the order of a 15% decline. Prior to the JPMorgan meeting, analysts had been expecting a decline more on the order of high single digits. "It sounds like more bloodletting on Wall Street,” Mercer Capital's Jeff Davis. “What we are seeing is a function of investors being scared of bonds because the math is bad. No one I talk to wants to take a chance adding bonds to the portfolio.”
2014-3-3	GS	Apple's Oppenheimer joins Goldman board	Goldman Sachs (GS) expands its board to 13 members - 10 of whom are independent directors - with the appointment of Apple CFO Peter Oppenheimer. He will a member of the board's Audit, Risk Compensation and Corporate Governance, and Nominating and Public Responsibilities committees.
2014-2-28	GS	New regulatory probe for Goldman	Disclosing a regulatory probe into "allocation of and trading in fixed-income securities," Goldman Sachs (GS +0.5%) nevertheless, cuts its estimate of "reasonably possible" legal losses beyond existing reserves to $3.6B from $4B. Goldman generated 46% of revenue from sales and trading last year and had losses in that business on 27 days - up from 16 days in 2012. In another disclosure, Goldman gave certain employees restricted stock worth $2.3B in performance rewards last year, a lower amount than in 2012. 10-K
2014-2-27	GS	Reuters: Biomet eyes $1B+ IPO	Medical-device maker Biomet has hired underwriters to help carry out an IPO that could take place in H1 and raise over $1B, Reuters reports. The listing could come seven years after Biomet was taken private for $11.4B. Its owners are Blackstone (BX), Goldman Sachs' (GS) private-equity arm, KKR (KKR) and TPG Capital. Biomet's adjusted net profit rose 46% to $368M in FY 2013 as revenue increased 8% to $3B. The company's products include dental implants and artificial hip joints.
2014-2-25	GS	JPMorgan presentation takes piece out of investment banks	Today's presentation by JPMorgan (JPM -1.6%) Corporate & Investment Bank co-CEOs Mike Cavanagh and Daniel Pinto is taking a slice out of Goldman Sachs (GS -1.9%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -2.2%), with Pinto talking about a continuing slowdown in markets activity thus far in 2014. "It's just weather," says Jamie Dimon, commenting on the tough start to the year - not necessarily blaming the weather, but pointing out the passing nature of such trends. Not discussed today is a WSJ report on the unexpected departure of the bank's chief compliance officer, Cindy Armine, after just about a year on the job. She's apparently moving to First Data Corp, run by former JPMorgan exec Frank Bisignano, who's recruited a number of former colleagues since exiting the bank in April. Armine's move is just the latest in a line of high-profile exits from JPMorgan. Her role will be filled on an interim basis by Lou Rauchenberger, chief administrative officer for the corporate and investment bank. Some other IBs: Greenhill (GHL -0.8%), Evercore (EVR -1.1%), Lazard (LAZ -0.6%) Earlier investor day coverage
2014-2-25	GS	Don't expect a lot from bank stress test results this year says Citi	With bank capital levels really no longer in question, don't expect any big pops in the banks surrounding the stress tests and CCAR results, says Citi in its "2014 CCAR Playbook." If anything - given that the stress tests are supposedly tougher this year - the risk to banks could be on the downside. The team expects the stress test results - which looks at bank balance sheets under different scenarios - sometime around March 7 and the CCAR results - on which the Fed approves/disapproves capital return plans - about a week later. Look for modestly higher average gross payout ratios of 62% vs. 55% last year. Individual banks: BAC 11% dividend (payout ratio) + 32% buyback for 43%; BBT 33% dividend +19% buyback; FITB 32% dividend + 37% buyback; JPM 27% dividend + 18% buyback; WFC 28% dividend + 43% buyback; GS 14% dividend + 78% buyback for an industry-leading payout ratio of 91%; MTB 34% dividend + 0% buyback; MS 17% dividend + 36% buyback; PNC 31% dividend + 49% buyback; USB 30% dividend +46% buyback. Related ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, IAI, IAT, SEF, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, RKH, QABA, FINU, FNCL, KCE, KRU, RWW, KBWR, RYF, PSCF, KRS, FINZ, KBWC
2014-2-21	GS	Energy Future set to file for Chapter 11 with $40B+ in debt	Energy Future Holdings is preparing to file for bankruptcy protection after creditors failed to agree on how to restructure the Texas power utility's $40B+ of debt following months of talks, the WSJ reports. The filing would probably lead to a break-up of Energy Future's two largest operating units, with the company trying to organize bankruptcy loans of over $4B for its main regulated and unregulated subsidiaries. Energy Future's owners, KKR (KKR), Goldman Sachs Capital Partners (GS) and TPG Capital, are hoping to retain some sort of stake in the company. One group of debtees includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, while another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners.
2014-2-20	GS	Markit expects major dividend hikes at BofA and Citi	Expecting dividends to grow 49% on average for the banks subject to the Fed's stress tests (about the same as last year), Markit, says Citigroup (C) and Bank of America (BAC) will lead the way with 400% boosts. "They are the last of the major banks paying minimal dividends ... change is overdue." While 400% is a big number, Citi and BofA will continue to lag their peers in terms of yield (400% growth on a penny just leads to a nickel). Also expected to have a significant pop is Morgan Stanley (MS) - a doubling of the payout to $0.10 per share and a 1.4% yield. Others in the top 5 in increases are Zions Bancorp (ZION) with a 75% boost to $0.07 and Regions Financial (RF) up 67% to $0.05. The others: KEY +27%, HBAN +20%, BK +20%, STI +20%, COF +17%, DFS +15%, AXP +13%, STT +12%, JPM +11%, CMA +11%, PNC +9%, USB +9%, GS +9%, FITB +8%, WFC +7%, NTRS +6%, and no soup for BBT and MTB where the dividends are expected to be flat at $0.23 and $0.70 per share, respectively. As for ETFs, the dividend jumps are expected to have the biggest impact on the XLF which would see a 25% increase in payout: The ETF has 81 companies, but the top 5 holdings - BofA, Wells, JPM, Citi, USB - make up 41% of assets. In contrast, just two CCAR banks make up the top five holdings of the KBE and it should see a more muted increase of just 18%. Related ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, IAT, SEF, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, RKH, QABA, FNCL, FINU, KRU, RWW, KBWR, RYF, PSCF, KRS, FINZ
2014-2-15	GS	Tyson Foods makes a play for Michael Foods	Tyson Foods (TSN) made an offer for Michael Foods, according to Bloomberg. The prepared foods business is owned by the P-E arm of Goldman Sachs (GS). Inside sources think more bids in the neighborhood of $2B could come in from food companies and other P-E firms. Michael Foods sells products under a number of brands that would be a good fit for Tyson - including Simply Potatoes, Papetti’s Easy Eggs, and Crystal Farms cheese.
2014-2-12	GS	Goldman, Deutsche Bank looking to sell uranium ops	Goldman Sachs (GS) and Deutsche Bank (DB) are looking to exit an area of operations that not that many people know they're involved in: trading supplies of raw uranium, which is also known as yellow cake. Between them, the companies have built up stockpiles of low-grade uranium larger than those held by Iran. However, with scrutiny of banks' physical-commodities trading increasing and uranium demand low following the Fukushima disaster, the firms are looking to sell their uranium trading desks. Australian bank Macquarie (MCQEF) is reportedly interested in Goldman's operations, which are called NUFCOR.
2014-2-11	GS	Goldman boosts size of management committee	According to staff memos, Goldman Sachs (GS +2.2%) has added five execs to its management committee, bringing the size of the group to 34 members, and continuing a big wave of promotions and departures at the bank over the past few years. Added are Paul Russo, Michael Daffey, Justin Gmelich, Craig Broderick and Sarah Smith. Russo and Daffey are co-COOs of Goldman's equities trading business, while Gmelich is global head of credit trading. Broderick is chief risk officer, and Smith is controller and chief accounting officer. There is no sign CEO Lloyd Blankfein plans to step down in the near-future, and executives at the bank describe the moves as a way to have a strong bench in place for when he does retire.
2014-2-5	GS	New York bank regulator reportedly opens currency trading probe	Ben Lawsky, New York's financial services superintendent, reportedly has opened an investigation into manipulation of the currency markets by large banks and is requesting documents from more than a dozen institutions. Lawsky is said to have asked for documents from Barclays (BCS), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS), Lloyds (LYG), Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), Societe Generale (SCGLF, SCGLY) and Standard Chartered (SCDRF, SCBFF).
2014-2-3	GS	Goldman invests in Russian exercise chaim	Teaming with VTB Capital to buy a 50% stake in Russian Fitness Group, Goldman Sachs (GS) is looking to capitalize on the country's growing enthusiasm for working out. Goldman had owned a minority stake since 2006. Russian Fitness Group - an owner of the World Class and FIsKult chains - has 60 clubs in 22 cities with 109K members after 21 years in business. The World Class group plans to open nine more clubs this year.
2014-2-3	GS	Goldman Sachs upped to Buy at Guggenheim	Citing strong investment banking activity, a rebound in brokerage fees, and expectations for continued momentum in 2014, Guggenheim upgrades Goldman Sachs (GS) to Buy with $200 price target. Shares +0.9% premarket
2014-1-30	GS	Goldman's Thursday: Sued by Libya; nearly topples Danish government	The lawsuit claims Goldman (GS +1.1%) took advantage of the trust earned with the managers of the fund to exert "under influence" in piling them into a series of equity derivatives trades totaling more than $1B in 2008 that expired worthless (though Goldman made an estimated $350M). Goldman denies the charges. The claims aren't too far out of line with a common theme of that era - that Goldman routinely took advantage of clients' lack of sophistication. The House of Blankfein has since formed a business-standards committee to stop such practices. "For all of our employees, the experience of initiating, approving and executing a transaction for a client at Goldman Sachs is now fundamentally different" than 5 years ago, wrote the committee last year. In other news, a deal for Denmark to unload a 19% stake in state-owned Dong Energy to Goldman threatens to bring down the government there. Opposition has grown amid Goldman's plan to transfer ownership of Dong to the tax havens of Luxembourg, the Cayman Islands, and even Delaware. There's also a put option allowing Goldman to sell back its shares to country if an IPO doesn't take place by 2018.
2014-1-24	GS	Was a company you own at Davos? Then sell.	What was the CEO of a company you're an owner of up to this week? An index of companies whose execs regularly attend Davos has vastly underperformed the market since 2009. Attendance at the gathering tends to be dominated by the financials, with GS, C, HSBC, JPM, LAZ, MS, SCBFF, BAC, ITUB, and UBS leading the way to prove their bona fides as thought leaders. Also spotted were the heads of DOW, and PEP. Notably absent: Buffett (BRK.A, BRK.B) , Tim Cook (AAPL) (Jobs never attended either), Jeff Immelt (GE), and Virginia Rometty (IBM). Google's (GOOG) founders and Mark Zuckerberg (FB) stopped going a couple of years ago.
2014-1-17	GS	Goldman price target boosted to $200 at FBR	It was a tough operating environment in Q4, says analyst Steve Stelmach, "however, we believe the company's top- and bottom-line results are reason for optimism as we move into 2014." He reiterates his Outperform rating and raises the price target to $200 from $184. Increasing clarity on both regulatory and market issues - Volcker is settled and the taper is underway - "may potentially lead to a better operating environment for broker/dealers." "Goldman's (GS +0.8%) business model is set up to capitalize on any incremental market and economic improvement. Regardless, our outlook reflects a similarly uninspiring ROE to what GS posted in 2013, yet we remain positive on shares due to valuation that more than reflects these modest ROE expectations."
2014-1-16	GS	Goldman not ready to give ROE target yet	No one should get off this call thinking we're not "exquisitely focused" on the best possible way to deploy our capital, says Goldman (GS -1.4%) CFO Harvey Schwartz, responding to Mike Mayo's request for a target ROE. However, adds Schwartz, when we put a target out, we want it to be both credible and achievable, and at this point management isn't ready to do so. Goldman's ROE in 2013 was 11% vs. 10.7% in 2012. As for the Volcker rule's impact on revenue, Schwartz says there won't be any of note. Instead, it will be more an expense item: "There’s a pretty extensive compliance regime.” Earlier call and earnings coverage
2014-1-16	GS	Goldman call: Competitor exits leave opportunity in fixed-income	"When you boil it all down, the 2013 environment is just one where the world took two steps forward followed by one step back," says Goldman (GS -1.6%) CFO Harvey Schwartz on the earnings call. Responding to a question about any planned structural changes to the struggling fixed-income unit, Schwartz instead points to the opportunities awaiting Goldman as competitors (like Morgan Stanley) pull back. "We’ve been building a lot of operating leverage into our fixed-income franchise over the last couple of years." Offered the opportunity to talk about client engagement thus far in the new year, Schwartz says its way too early to extrapolate anything. As to the Volcker rule, Schwartz says Goldman's been prepping for it since Dodd-Frank passed in 2010. Once the final rule came to light, the company immediately established a "Volcker implementation team." Earlier earnings coverage CC webcast
2014-1-16	GS	Goldman FICC business slides, but beats estimates	Institutional Client Services revenue of $3.41N is off 22% from a year ago, but gained 19% from Q3. FICC revenue of $1.72B is off 15% Y/Y (consensus was for a 23% decline). Company notes an improvement from Q3, but "economic uncertainty persisted and levels of activity generally remained low." Equity revenue of $1.68B fell 27% Y/Y after the sale of Goldman's Americas insurance unit. Investing & Lending revenue of $2.06B is up 4% from a year ago. Investment Management revenue of $1.6B is up 5% Y/Y. Operating expenses of $5.23B fall 6% Y/Y, with compensation expense of $2.189B off 11%. The bank's ROE jumps to 12.7% from 8.1% in Q3. Repurchases of 39.3M shares during 2013 at an average price of $157.11. 8.5M shares bought back in Q4 at average price of $164.90. Remaining authorization is for 57.2M shares. GS +0.4% premarket CC at 9:30 ET
2014-1-16	GS	Goldman Sachs Group Inc. beats by $0.43, beats on revenue	Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS): Q4 EPS of $4.60 beats by $0.43. Revenue of $8.78B (-5.0% Y/Y) beats by $1.16B.
2014-1-16	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	BBT, BLK, C, FRC, GS, HBAN, IGTE, IIIN, PNC, PPG, PVTB, TSM, UNH
2014-1-15	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	BBT, BLK, C, FRC, GS, HBAN, IGTE, IIIN, PNC, PPG, PVTB, TSM, UNH
2014-1-15	GS	Big quarter for BofA detailed in earnings call	"We still have not approached the true earnings potential of Bank of America (BAC)," says CEO Brian Moynihan, leading off the earnings call. The bank reported EPS of $0.29, beating estimates for $0.26, but adjusting for DVA, litigation, and the artificially low tax rate brings core EPS up to $0.42, notes Hedgeye's Josh Steiner. CC webcast and presentation slides Declining to answer a question about the Fed stress tests and BofA's capital return plans (will the nominal $0.01 dividend be hiked this year), CFO Bruce Thompson notes the bank's Tier 1 common capital ratio is around 9%, higher than the proposed 8.5% minimum which doesn't take effect until 2019. The bank cut 5,826 jobs in Q4 - with the cuts coming in branches and mortgage servicing/origination. Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) investors take note: BofA's FICC revenue of $2.1B jumped 16% Y/Y. JPMorgan yesterday reported a 1% Y/Y gain vs. expectations for an 11% decline. The Street expects Goldman to report a 23% decline (after Q3's 44% tumble) and Morgan Stanley an 8% increase. Is a positive surprise looming? BAC +2.9% premarket to $17.25, the highest price in nearly 4 years.
2014-1-13	GS	Regulators ease Basel leverage ratio requirements	The Basel Committee for Banking Supervision has eased the way banks will have to report leverage ratios, or the amount of capital they hold against their loans and other assets. The regulations will not force banks to count 100% of their off-balance-sheet assets, such as much of their exposure to derivatives, and guarantees and letters of credit. That alterations will lower the need for banks to sell assets or raise capital to meet the Basel leverage-ratio requirements, which might be set at 3% or higher from 2018. The Stoxx Europe 600 Banks index is +1.5%. Major banks: RBS, HSBC, BCS, DB, CS, UBS, GS, JPM, C, MS, WFC, USB, BK, SAN, BBVA, LYG, NMR ETFs: XLF, FAS, FAZ, UYG, KRE, VFH, KBE, IYF, EUFN, IPF, SEF, IAT, IYG, PFI, FXO, IXG, KBWB, KME, RKH, QABA, KRU, FINU, RWW, KBWR, RYF, FNCL, PSCF, AXFN, KRS, FINZ, EMFN, KBWX
2014-1-10	GS	Report: Goldman Sachs miner halts coal exports from Colombia	Goldman Sachs-owned (GS) Colombian National Resources has halted coal exports from Colombia after the country introduced a new environmental law the miner is not yet able to comply with, Reuters reports. Colombia's coal exports are expected to tumble by a third or more in the first few months of this year after a new law that took effect Jan. 1 banned the old crane and barge method of loading ships that has been outlawed because of the pollution it causes.
2014-1-9	GS	Goldman initiated a Neutral at Nomura	"In our view, the negative impact on Goldman's (GS -0.1%) FICC revenues from new regulation could be permanent given structural business model changes," says analyst Steven Chubak, starting the stock at Neutral and $72 price target. "Higher-margin Investing & Lending, which has contributed 25% of pre-tax income in recent years, will also be downsized in an effort to become Volcker-compliant." Earlier: Nomura launches coverage on the rest of the TBTFs - BofA and Citi are Buys, while JPMorgan and Morgan Stanely join Goldman at Neutral.
2014-1-8	GS	Investigations into mortgage-bonds just won't go away	The SEC and the special inspector general for TARP (Sigtarp) are reportedly probing several major banks over whether they deliberately mis-priced residential mortgage bonds after the financial crisis hit. The suspicion is that traders exploited the fog of the crisis to cheat clients by buying or selling the debt at artificially high or low prices from 2009-2011. Most of the usual suspects are under investigation, including JPMorgan (JPM), Barclays (BCS), Citigroup (C), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) and UBS (UBS).
2014-1-7	GS	SocGen: Bond bear market to hit Goldman and Deutsche the most	A bear market in bonds will crimp trading revenue at Goldman Sachs (GS -0.6%) and Deutsche Bank (DB +2.4%) says SocGen, explaining its initiation of coverage on the two banks with a Sell rating. "We expect FICC weakness to be an ongoing structural theme - not a temporary issue - in a rising U.S. long interest-rate environment ... As investors veer away from the bond bear market,” look for money to flow into equities, says the team, starting UBS at Buy. Look for Goldman to curtail its capital return program thanks to regulatory limits on leverage, adds SocGen, and for (Hold-rated) Credit Suisse (CS +1.7%) to take action to boost its own ratios. “There is no getting away from regulatory pressure and the burden it places on investment-bank business models."
2014-1-7	GS	SocGen widens coverage of big banks	The French lender launches coverage of five more major lenders, with UBS (UBS +2.4%) the only one of the new group rated a Buy. Started at hold are Credit Suisse (CS +1.6%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -0.3%), while Deutsche Bank (DB +2.5%) and Goldman Sachs (GS -0.8%) are Sells. Last September, SocGen's Murali Gopal initiated both Bank of America and Citigroup with Buys, and Wells Fargo and JPMorgan with Holds.
2014-1-2	GS	More on Citi's bullish BofA call	Trading at 1.2x tangible book value, the stocks of Goldman Sachs (GS +0.1%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -0.7%) look to have mostly priced in management's ability to drive returns above cost of capital, says analyst Keith Horowitz, who nevertheless raises Goldman's PT to $195 and Morgan's to $35. Bank of America's (BAC +2.2%) new price target of $19 "reflects a cost of equity more in line with history and no longer impacted by legacy issues." Lazard (LAZ -0.5%) - which had a big 2013 - may do little more than tread water this year, says Horowitz, as weak M&A activity weighs on earnings. Previous coverage of CIti's BofA upgrade
2013-12-29	GS	Judge allows expanded mortgage-bond class-action suits	U.S. District Judge Harold Baer has widened the scope of class-action litigation over the sale of over $34B in mortgage bonds. Investors can now join together to sue Citigroup (C), Goldman Sachs (GS) and UBS (UBS) over an estimated $11.9B worth of paper. They can also proceed with a case against RBS (RBS) involving $22.5B worth of debt.
2013-12-27	GS	Millions of tons of metal stored in "shadow warehouses"	The WSJ shines a light onto "shadow warehouses," a hidden system of facilities that store tens of millions of tons of aluminum, copper, nickel and zinc across the globe for banks, hedge funds and commodity merchants. The warehouses operate outside the London Metal Exchange's system, are unregulated, and don't provide details of their holdings. As a result, it's unclear how much metal is held in the shadow system. This lack of visibility could cause major price swings. The WSJ article follows allegations that warehousing companies have artificially boosted the price of metals, particularly aluminum. Companies that operate metals warehouses include Goldman Sachs (GS), Glencore Xstrata (GLCNF) and JPMorgan (JPM), although the latter is looking to sell its commodities unit. Relevant tickers include VALE, AA, AWC, KALU, MNSF, CENX, NOR, BHP, RIO, ACH. ETFs: DBC, JJC, DBB, DJP, GSG, RJI, GCC, USCI, CFD, JJN, JJT, BOM, RGRC, CPER, CTF, RJZ, GSC, LSC, GSP, JJU, DEE, BDD, BOS, JJM, DYY, DDP, DJCI, LD, CMD, BCM, CUPM, UCI, RGRI, UCD, UBM, FOIL, BDG, LEDD, CMDT, SBV, USMI, DPU, NINI, FTGC, CSCB, CSCR, HEVY
2013-12-26	GS	P-E firms may pay more than $1B in collusion case	Sources say "the time has passed" that plaintiffs would have settled for $1B The suit alleges private-equity firms, including KKR (KKR), Bain Capital, Silver Lake Partners, Blackstone Group (BX), Carlyle Group (CG), TPG Capital, and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners (GS) agreed from 2004 through 2008 not to jump each others' signed deals. The PE firms have tried 10 times since the 2007 case was filed to get it tossed. Settlement talks could begin in earnest in coming months after a Nov. 3, 2014, trial date was set during a court hearing last week, sources say. The value of the eight buyouts in question is $170B
2013-12-23	GS	Goldman skirts Volcker with real estate investments	Holes and trucks come to mind as Goldman Sachs (GS +0.8%) - pitching a new real-estate related fund - tells potential investors it will own up to 20% of it. This despite a Volcker Rule prohibition on banks owning more than 3% of a hedge fund or private-equity portfolio. It turns out regulators excluded many real-estate loans from those restrictions, meaning the TBTFs will be able to make maybe risky concentrated property bets (worked out well for Lehman). Also seemingly skirting the new regulations, Goldman is making direct investments in property assets, according to sources, but the sources say Goldman believes it's held real estate long enough to avoid it being labeled "proprietary trading." Meanwhile: Stung by the Volcker rule, smaller banks threaten to sue.
2013-12-20	GS	Goldman reportedly latest to ban chat rooms	Goldman Sachs (GS -0.2%) has joined the line of banks banning traders from chat rooms amid regulatory probes of currency-rigging, according to Bloomberg. Traders will still be allowed to communicate one-on-one with dealers at other firms, but mutliparty chat rooms will be verboten. JPMorgan, RBS, and Lloyds all ended the practice this week, and Deutsche will widen an existing ban on such forums to include its entire investment bank and transaction-banking business.
2013-12-19	GS	Facebook, Zuckerberg, others to face lawsuit over IPO	District Judge Robert Sweet has ruled that Facebook (FB), CEO Mark Zuckerberg, COO Sheryl Sandberg and dozens of banks should face investor lawsuits that accuse the social-media site of concealing revenue warnings from its IPO registration statement prior to its listing in May 2012. It was information that Facebook gave to its underwriters' analysts. "The company's purported risk warnings misleadingly represented that this revenue cut was merely possible when, in fact, it had already materialized," Sweet wrote. The banks involved include Morgan Stanley (MS), Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM). Sweet has also ruled that Nasdaq (NDAQ) should face lawsuits over the technical problems that plagued the IPO.
2013-12-17	GS	Banks could face tougher stress tests next year	The Fed intends to use its own estimates about the effect of a recession on bank balance sheets in its stress tests. Previously, the Fed has relied on data from the firms themselves. The central bank could project that bank assets would grow during a slump, as has happened in the past three recessions, rather than fall, as the banks have predicted. With such a finding, the Fed could require banks to hold more loss-absorbing capital or limit shareholder payouts. (Fed letter) Tickers: GS, JPM, BAC, BK, AXP, COF, C, FITB, MS, PNC, RF, STT, STI, USB, WFC. ETFs of interest: KBE, KBWB, KRE, KCE, KBWC, XLF, IYF, PFI, VFH, RYF, RWW, FAS, UYG, FAZ, SKF, SEF, IAI, FXO, PSCF, KBWD, KBWB, IYG, FINU, FINZ.
2013-12-11	GS	Goldman taking share in equity issuance	"The most notable positives to us were permission to continue to trade sovereign bonds for proprietary purposes, permission to invest in non-covered entities such as wholly owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, and acquisition vehicles such as business development companies, and the ability to hedge risk related to individual as well as aggregated positions of the banking entity," opines Susquehanna's Doug Sipkin about the Volcker rule. He also notes the timeline - the rules become effective on April 1 and conformance starts on July 21, 2015. Goldman Sachs (GS -1.3%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -2.1%) are most impacted by the rule, says Sipkin, but Goldman - thanks to greater capital efficiency, wider bid-ask spreads, and best-in-breed status in IB - should be just fine. Sipkin expects Q4 results to begin showing this, helped by a "torrid" pace of equity issuance. Goldman's share of equity issues YTD is 11.8% vs. 8% a year ago. "The equity business in Q4 is likely seeing its best quarter since prior to the credit crisis." Previous: Mike Mayo says Morgan Stanley is more wealth manager than trading shop now, and should cruise through the Volcker rule.
2013-12-10	GS	Details of Volcker rule set to be unveiled	A panoply of regulators are due to disclose the details of the Volcker rule this morning and then formally adopt the measures later in the day. The new regulations will ban banks from proprietary trading, and prevent them from owning over 3% of hedge funds and private-equity funds. Banks fear that the rules could cost them billions of dollars by making it more difficult to engage in activities that are permitted under the regulation, such as market-making, underwriting and hedging against risks. Expect the lawyers to go through the proposals to see what could be struck down in court. Tickers: C, JPM, MS, WFC, BAC, COF, GS, BK, USB ETFs: FAS, XLF, FAZ, UYG, KRE, KBE, VFH, IYF, SEF, IAT, IYG, PFI, FXO, KBWB, RKH, QABA, RWW, KRU, FINU, KBWR, RYF, PSCF, FNCL, KRS, FINZ
2013-12-8	GS	SEC widens probe into hiring practices at banks	Goldman Sachs (GS), Deutsche Bank (DB) and Credit Suisse (CS) have reportedly joined JPMorgan (JPM) on the list of banks being investigated for their hiring practices in China. Morgan Stanley and Citigroup are also being scrutinized. The SEC is looking at whether the banks breached laws relating to foreign bribery by recruiting the family members of the well-connected in order to win business. The probe into JPMorgan has uncovered an email from a senior JPMorgan executive in Hong Kong saying that the bank's recruitment program for family members of senior government and other officials - called Sons and Daughters - had an almost "linear relationship with winning assignments to advise Chinese companies." A spreadsheet tracks JPM's record for converting hires into business deals. However, documents that JPMorgan has handed over as part of the investigation don't indicate that executives at the bank's New York HQ knew of the recruitment strategy.
2013-12-5	GS	Graseck: Goldman to take biggest hit from Volcker rule	The Volcker rule is expected to be voted on and approved next week, but implementation is likely to be pushed out, says Graseck, to ensure effective compliance. "We expect more rules-based trading with documentation and paperwork needed to demonstrate trading activity is not prop.” Goldman (GS -1.4%) generates 50% of its revenue from trading, with FICC contributing 30%, says Morgan Stanley's Betsey Graseck. Additionally, the bank gets 17% of revenues from investing and lending. "We think 25% of this revenue could be at risk," she writes. Earlier: The London Whale assures Volcker rule to have sharp teeth.
2013-12-5	GS	Blow to banks' hedging in Volcker Rule	The Too Big To Fail banks lead to the downside amid a report the set-to-be-voted on Volcker rule will not contain language allowing portfolio hedging - trades supposedly designed to protect against losses in a broad portfolio of assets. Banks can thank JPMorgan's (JPM -1.7%) London Whale fiasco for this as the Whale's trades were ostensibly set up for this portfolio hedging, but ended up costing the bank $6B. The move is a big blow to the banks which had sent their big lobbying guns in to try and prevent the disallowing of this practice. Banks often hedge to offset risks from trading with clients, but often there is no great hedge, and this is where portfolio hedging comes in ... or used to. "Volcker has morphed a bit, thanks to the Whale," says UBS' Brennan Hawken. "Now a big component of it has become about hedging. What can you hedge, and what can't you? It's really unclear." The CFTC and SEC are each set to vote on the rule on Dec. 10. Citigroup (C -1.9%), Bank of America (BAC -1.2%), Goldman Sachs (GS -1%), Morgan Stanley (MS -2.2%).
2013-12-5	GS	DOJ plans more MBS fraud cases in New Year	The Department of Justice intends to bring cases against several financial institutions next year for what it says is mortgage-bond fraud, Attorney General Eric Holder told Reuters yesterday. While Holder said that the DOJ would use JPMorgan's $13B agreement as a template, he didn't provide details about which banks are in his crosshairs. Firms that have acknowledged that they are under investigation include Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C) and Goldman Sachs (GS).
2013-12-3	GS	Banks about to get clarity on prop trading	The CFTC sets a December 10 vote on the so-called Volcker rule which is supposed to ban banks from prop trading. It sounded so simple when politicians trumpeted it in 2010, but the reality of what banks do is slightly more complex and the text of the rule has mushroomed to 1K pages. GS, MS, JPM, BAC, and C, among others, will be eager to see what the regulations entail. Any hopes for a watering-down of the rule likely ended with JPMorgan's $6B London Whale loss. The SEC indicates it will act on the rule around the same time as the CFTC (3 other agencies must approve as well). Related ETFs: FAS, XLF, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IAI, IYG, PFI, FXO, KBWB, KCE, RWW, FINU, RYF, PSCF, FNCL, FINZ, KBWC
2013-12-2	GS	Fed okays revised capital plans for Goldman and JPM	This concerns the 2013 CCAR from earlier this year in which both Goldman (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM) were approved for their capital return plans, but the Fed asked both to tweak what were deemed to be weaknesses, and resubmit. Today's decision has no bearing on the upcoming 2014 stress tests.
2013-12-2	GS	DOJ to scale back CDS investigation without charges	After four years of trawling through trading data, messages, emails and documents about credit-default swaps, the Department of Justice is reportedly winding down an investigation into allegations of anti-competitive behavior in the $24.3T market for credit-default swaps Prosecutors had scrutinized Markit and the major banks that control the trading-data provider, including Citigroup (C), Goldman Sachs (GS), JPMorgan (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS). The banks, which act as dealers, were accused of conspiring to stop exchanges and other outsiders from participating in the market. The DOJ's move comes amid new regulations that are designed to increased competition. However, the probe remains open and prosecutors are continuing to monitor an investigation in the EU.
2013-11-27	GS	Additional legal tab for banks could exceed $100B	"Mortgage-related litigation has recently gotten a second wind and has expanded beyond investor claims,” says S&P, now estimating legal tab for U.S. banks could be another $56.5B-$104B. The good news is banks have gotten ahead of even these crazy numbers by boosting litigation reserves to nearly $155B. The bad news would be if Bank of America's (BAC) $8.5B mortgage settlement with private parties gets tossed out by a federal judge (see Article 77 hearing coverage), the litigation losses could "escalate significantly ...  the ability of US banks with the largest exposures to withstand additional expenses is not unlimited.” C, WFC, MS, JPM, and GS declined to comment for the story. From the Department of Legal Issues Are Going Nowhere: The Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh - claiming its losses of more than $1B are not covered by the JPMorgan global settlement - asks a judge to force JPM to turn over the draft complain from the DOJ which includes the name of a bank employee described as a cooperating witness for the government. Related ETFs: FAS, XLF, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IAI, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, KCE, FINU, RWW, RYF, PSCF, FNCL, FINZ, KBWC
2013-11-27	GS	UBS upped to Buy at RBC	UBS is ahead by 1.2% in the premarket amid an RBC upgrade to Buy (the price target remains $20). Positive on the global investment banks in general, RBC reiterates Buy ratings on BCS, CS, MS, DB, and GS. In other UBS news, the bank confirms a visit to its Paris HQ by French investigators looking into allegations it illegally sold products designed to avoid French taxes.
2013-11-27	GS	Danaher, Blackstone team up again for Ashland water unit	Danaher (DHR) and Blackstone (BX) have reportedly joined together to bid for the water-treatment unit of chemicals manufacturer Ashland (ASH) in a deal that could exceed $1.5B. Other suitors vying for the business include Apollo (APO) and Goldman Sachs' (GS) private-equity arm. The move for the Ashland ops is the second deal that Danaher and Blackstone are working on, with the companies also looking to acquire J&J's clinical diagnostics unit, which could attract $4B.
2013-11-27	GS	Aramark looks to raise $1B in IPO	Stadium food and clothing vendor Aramark (ARMK) reportedly intends to raise up to $1B in its IPO and will start investor meetings next week with a view to listing in December. Aramark would use the money to repay some of its debt of $5.7B, which is a legacy of the $6.3B deal that took the company private in 2007. Goldman Sachs Capital Partners (GS) was one of the buyers. Aramark's IPO comes at the same time as that of Hilton, both of which could ensure that a banner year for public listings ends with a bang.
2013-11-27	GS	Top U.S. banks face further mortgage payouts of up to $104B	Eight leading U.S. banks could have to pay a further $56.5-104B to settle mortgage-related claims, S&P reckons. However, the largest banks have estimated capital buffers of $155B combined, which would be enough to absorb the losses. S&P doesn't expect the legal liabilities to hurt the banks' ratings. Banks: JPM, BAC, C, MS, WFC, GS ETFs: FAS, XLF, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, RWW, FINU, RYF, PSCF, FNCL, FINZ
2013-11-26	GS	Goldman launches first closed-end fund	Open for trade from Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GS) is the GS MLP Income Opportunities Fund (GMZ), the first closed-end fund ever launched by the firm. The fund raised $826.3M in its IPO. MLP ETFs: AMLP, AMJ, MLPL, YMLP, MLPI, MLPA, MLPN, EMLP, MLPS, MLPG, MLPY, MLPJ, MLPX, YMLI, AMU, ATMP, MLPW, IMLP, ENFR, MLPC MLP CEFs: CEM, FMO, JMF, KYE, KYN, NTG, SRV, TYG, TYN, TYY
2013-11-22	GS	Goldman reportedly putting uranium trading business on the block	It's another bank exit from a physical commodities business as Goldman (GS) has put its uranium trading operation up for sale. The move comes ahead of new Fed rules on how it will deal with banks' exposure in this area, not to mention cooler commodity markets than existed a few years back. Goldman's decision was first reported by SparkSpread.
2013-11-21	GS	Goldman caught leaning wrong way by Fed's Sept. non-taper	Reportedly burned by the Fed's non-taper in September, Goldman Sachs (GS) lost $1.3B on currency trades in Q3. It appears the bank was net short emerging market currencies, and "absolutely got annihilated" when the Fed unexpectedly postponed tapering. On the earnings conference call (transcript), CFO Harvey Schwartz blamed weak currency trading on "difficulty managing inventory" as well as slow volume. Pressed as to why Goldman would hold any inventory in as liquid a market as currencies, Schwartz declined to detail the bank's positions.
2013-11-19	GS	JPM was prepared to fund federal benefits during budget crisis	Finally, a bit of positive coverage for JPMorgan (JPM): Reuters reports that as the U.S. again threatened default last month and the government shut down, the bank was prepared to fund federal benefits such as Social Security and food stamps to its retail customers. "It is the right thing to do," CEO Jamie Dimon said. The cost would have been $5B a month and it wasn't certain how JPMorgan could have legally recouped the money. The company has invested over $100M and plenty of man hours in recent years to prepare for budget crises, while other banks have also been spending heavily on contingency plans. These include Wells Fargo (WFC), Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS).
2013-11-18	GS	Goldman moving ahead with warehouse sale talks	Claiming plenty of buyer interest, Goldman Sachs (GS +1.8%) - reports the FT - is stepping up discussions of a sale of its metals warehousing business, Metro International Trade Services. Among the more than a dozen parties expressing interest are major commodity trading houses, P-E groups, and Chinese buyers including insurer Ping An and China Minmetals. The movement comes as the Fed reviews banks' allowed participation in the physical commodities business, and amid new rules from the LME making it easier to put a value on the unit. Those new rules would force stocks lower at the largest warehouses and a cut in the rent paid. Partially thanks to that, industry insiders reckon Goldman may get just half of the $540M it paid in 2010.
2013-11-18	GS	Fed mulls delay to Volcker rule	The Federal Reserve could delay by a year the date by which banks will have to comply with all aspects of the Volcker rule. The target at the moment is July 2014. Regulators are still finalizing the proposal, which, among other things, would ban banks from proprietary trading using their own money. The regulators are unlikely to release the definitive version until December. However, banks would still have to eliminate their pure proprietary trading desks by July next year. The sector is concerned that the rule will limit activities such as market making and hedging. ETFs: FAS, XLF, FAZ, UYG, VFH, IYF, SEF, IAI, IYG, FXO, PFI, KBWB, KCE, RWW, FINU, RYF, PSCF, FINZ, FNCL, KBWC Related tickers: BAC, GS, JPM, C, BK, WFC, MS
2013-11-18	GS	Trial over BofA's $8.5B mortgage-bond deal enters final stages	A court is due to begin hearing final arguments today over an agreement in which Bank of America (BAC) would pay investors $8.5B to settle claims that it sold mortgage bonds that didn't meet their promised quality. Those in favor of the deal include BlackRock (BLK), Pacific Investment Management Co (PIMCO) and Goldman Sachs (GS), while those against include AIG (AIG). The latter calls the agreement a "pennies on the dollar" settlement, as it argues that investor losses exceeded $100B.
2013-11-15	GS	Holder: "Tip of the iceberg" in bank investigations	A check of the stocks of the downgraded banks (GS, JPM, MS, BK) finds them snoozing through the news. Goldman is off 0.4% premarket, but it's one trade for 56 shares. The others have no premarket action. A look at the lender's bond yields finds them little-affected as well. A far larger issue is U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder calling the rate-fixing we know about so far "the tip of the iceberg," as U.S. regulators pile into a currency-trading investigation. The DOJ, he says, is "taking a leading role" in a "truly global investigation." The above-mentioned banks (maybe excepting BK) are being looked at, but Deutsche (DB), Citigroup (C), Barclays (BCS), and UBS are the gorillas in forex.
2013-11-14	GS	Moody's cuts senior debt of Morgan, Goldman, JPM, BNY Mellon	Moody’s cuts the senior debt ratings of Morgan Stanley (MS), Goldman Sachs (GS), JPMorgan (JPM) and BNY Mellon (BK) by one notch, based on its updated views on U.S. government support and standalone bank considerations. The credit ratings of these banks have each benefited from the assumption of government support, Moody's says, and its rating actions reflect strengthened U.S. bank resolution tools, prompted by the Dodd-Frank Act, which affect its assumptions about U.S. government support. Ratings for Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C), State Street (STT) and Wells Fargo (WFC) are left unchanged.
2013-11-13	GS	Goldman names 280 as managing directors; last class until 2015	As rumored earlier, Goldman Sachs (GS +0.1%) promotes slightly more employees to managing director this year - 280 vs. 266 in 2013. There won't be another new managing director class until 2015 as the bank shifts from making the promotions annually to once every two years. The securities division bagged the most new MDs with 94, while 51 are in investment banking, 39 in investment management, 14 in research, and 8 in merchant banking. The other 74 work in Goldman's administration arm, known as "The Federation." Base salaries for MDs are typically $500K, but potential bonus money is where the action is. The full list.
2013-11-13	GS	Last annual Goldman MD day	CNBC reports Goldman Sachs (GS -0.6%) will be naming a new team of managing directors at noon, with today's class to be "slightly larger" than last year's size of 266. It will reflect Goldman's revenue breakdown - 55% from the U.S., 25% from Europe, and 20% from emerging markets. After this year, Goldman will begin naming managing directors just once every two years, instead of annually.
2013-11-12	GS	Blankfein: Execution, not wholesale change is key	"While we have generated good relative returns in the last five years, they are hardly aspirational," says Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO Lloyd Blankfein, speaking at the BofA financial services conference. Transcript, slide presentation. For a company in Goldman's position, the response, he says, to current tough conditions is not "wholesale strategic change, but rather one of tactical execution ... for us, good strategy is effective execution." Among this execution is lowering expenses, and the $1.2B (non-compensation) expense initiative announced in 2011 has grown to $1.9B. He notes 25% (about 8K) of staff is now located in (relatively) low-cost sites like Bangalore, Salt Lake City, Dallas, and Singapore vs 10% in 2007, and 38% of all college and experienced hires since 2011 have been hired into those offices. Then there's capital management, and Blankfein reminds three recent sales - ICBC, European insurance, and Americas Reinsurance - reduced the balance sheet by $39B while cutting earnings less than $350M, and thus should boost Goldman's return on capital.
2013-11-7	GS	Goldman discloses tie to forex investigation	The widening probe of foreign-exchange price fixing spreads to Goldman Sachs (GS), which discloses (10-Q) regulators are looking into its trading activities. The bank also says continuing U.S. inquiries into MBS sold ahead of the financial crisis may bring about a "significant increase" in its legal costs, and raises to $4B from $3.5B its estimate of how much above legal reserves those costs could reach (this was tipped yesterday by CFO Schwartz).
2013-11-6	GS	Goldman raises estimate of excess legal costs	Speaking on the company's fixed income conference call (transcript), Goldman Sachs (GS +0.6%) CFO Harvey Schwartz says the bank has upped the top of the range of "reasonably possible" legal costs above what it has already set aside by $500M to $4B. A filing detailing the move will be available in 24 hours, he adds. The absolute level of those reserves is typically kept close to the chest by banks, though JPMorgan recently gave lawyers a target to shoot at by saying its was $23B.
2013-11-5	GS	CS: Investors may want to dial back bank capital return hopes	New CCAR guidelines are largely inline with last year, says the team at Credit Suisse, but some variables pose more onerous assumptions and could keep capital distributions more conservative than otherwise expected, though still improved from last year. The incorporation of a large counterparty default scenario is particularly of note for those banks with material trading and custodial operations. The bar for CCAR passage is thus raised for: BAC, BK, C, GS, JPM, MS, STT, and WFC. Additionally, the weakening of economic activity in the severely adverse scenario appears worse than last year. Also included is a reversal in the recent improvement in U.S. housing and the European economy. Those best-positioned for excess capital deployment: AXP, HBAN, KEY, NTRS, RF, and USB. Bank of New York, Goldman, State Street, and Wells Fargo all have the honor of ending up on both lists. ETFs: KBE, KBWB.
2013-11-4	GS	Banks brace for continued legal issues over mortgages	The legal headaches for the big banks over mortgages only grow after JPMorgan's (JPM -0.1%) $5,1B settlement with the FHFA - 12% of the original purchase amount. "My sense is, the industry is concerned about what’s happened,” says law professor Carl Tobias. “The size of the JPM settlement made people wake up and be more concerned than they were before.” Fourteen banks still have similar suits pending with the FHFA, but most-exposed is Bank of America (BAC +0.5%). ISI's Glenn Schorr extrapolates the JPMorgan settlement and figures BofA will have to pay $6.8B, well beyond $5.1B in legal reserves (BofA disclosed last week that losses could go beyond this). Goldman (GS +0.1%) and Morgan Stanley (MS +0.3%) would be on the hook for $1.3B each, says Schorr, and Morgan analyst Betsey Graseck cut her estimates for both BofA and Goldman last week. FHFA holds plenty of sway to get that 12% payout, but private investors have typically only gotten back 2% - looking at the government's fat payout might encourage them to lobby for a boost. Then there's a new tool for prosecutors - a law called the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act, or Firrea - "another arrow in the quiver of prosecutors, and it’s worked," says Tobias. It was central to a loss for BofA last month in a lawsuit over mortgages sold to the GSEs. Among its twists is a 10-year statute of limitations, and BofA discloses the DOJ is employing Firrea in a new suit about a certain 2008 mortgage offering.
2013-11-3	GS	Energy Future puts off Chapter 11 - for now	Energy Future Holdings has made a $270M payment to junior creditors, staving off a potential filing for bankruptcy protection but upsetting more senior debtees. Despite days of talks between creditors and the company's owners, the sides couldn't agree on the conditions of a Chapter 11 filing. A submission could now come in March, when the Texas utility is due to report its 2013 results, as its auditors are thought likely to refrain from providing the company's accounts with the status of "going concern," which is needed to avoid the triggering of a default. If and when the bankruptcy filing does come, Energy Future will have up to $4.35B available in financing, an amount that it has just secured. One group of creditors includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, while another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners. Energy Future's owners are KKR (KKR), TPG and Goldman Sachs (GS). (Previous)
2013-10-31	GS	Essent Group prices IPO above expectations at $17 per share	The mortgage insurer backed by George Soros, Goldman Sachs (GS), and JPMorgan (JPM) had expected a price range of $13.50-$15.50. At a price of $17, the company would be valued at about $1.4B and the 19.7M shares sold (24% of company) will raise nearly $335M. Goldman is selling 1.5M of its shares, cutting its stake in the company to 7%. Soros isn't planning on selling and will have a 9% stake. Mortgage insurer pure-plays like Radian (RDN) and MGIC Investment (MTG) have been high-flyers this year, as have those with sizable MI operations like Genworth (GNW) and AIG. Essent will trade under the symbol ESNT.
2013-10-30	GS	Goldman and UBS to be questioned over Royal Mail IPO	Shares of the U.K.'s Royal Mail are up 62% since the privatization, and that's not sitting well with lawmakers who feel underwriters Goldman Sachs (GS) and UBS may have gipped the government. Also to be called to the hearing may be bankers from JPMorgan, Citigroup, and Deutsche Bank - each of these firms suggested a higher price for the company, but none ultimately got a piece of the deal.
2013-10-24	GS	DOJ probes nine leading banks over sale of mortgage debt	The Department of Justice is reportedly investigating nine major banks over the sale of problematic mortgage bonds, although the probes are for civil infractions rather than criminal ones. The banks are Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), RBS (RBS), UBS (UBS) and Wells Fargo (WFC). The inquiries span U.S. attorney's offices from California to Massachusetts, and come as JPMorgan tries to reach a multi-billion dollar settlement over the issue.
2013-10-23	GS	Cohn: Tough Q3, but Goldman not giving up on fixed-income	We'll "re-double or triple our efforts" in fixed-income, Goldman (GS -0.9%) COO Gary Cohn tells Bloomberg, following last week's results which showed a 44% Y/Y decline in bond trading income - a bigger decline than nearly all of its peers (Goldman has peers?). Realtors in The Hamptons shudder: "When it comes to bonuses this year, it will all depend on how the fourth quarter shakes out ... If we don’t have a good fourth quarter, bonuses will be down."
2013-10-23	GS	JPMorgan's legal liabilities pile up with $5.75B claim	JPMorgan (JPM) is reportedly facing demands from a group of investors for $5.75B in compensation for the mis-selling of problematic mortgage-backed bonds prior to the financial crisis. The investors include BlackRock (BLK), Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GS) and Neuberger Berman; any deal would be similar to an $8.5B settlement that Bank of America has agreed to. The $5.75B would be separate to a $13B fine that JPMorgan is close to agreeing with a number of authorities for various sins, including those related to mortgage bonds. Meanwhile, JPMorgan could be poised to offset some of its legal costs with the sale of its physical commodities operations, which have reportedly attracted the interest of Brazilian investment bank Grupo BTG Pactual. JPMorgan has sought $3.3B for the business, the first-round bids for which are due before the end of the month.
2013-10-22	GS	Trading culture wins out as Evans departs from Goldman	Michael Evans - says insiders - tried to use his platform as leader of the board committee overseeing a review of Goldman's (GS -0.4%) business practices to position himself to succeed Lloyd Blankfein as CEO, reports William Cohan. The committee, he says, tried to push the argument that traders like Blankfein made the firm lots of money, but at the price of sacrificing the bank's reputation for putting clients first. Evans - who headed global growth markets - was "free from the taint of the trading floor." "Fealty to the man who wears the crown is one of the prerequisites of success on Wall Street," writes Cohan, and this is why Evans had to go. Blankfein will exit when he's good and ready, a message COO Gary Cohn has surely received loud and clear. Previous: Goldman vice chairman Evans to retire at year-end.
2013-10-22	GS	Goldman cuts stake in German property firm	There's more raising of cash at Goldman (GS) with the bank combining with Perry Capital to unload €289M worth of LEG Immobilien stock following the IPO of the German property management group earlier this year. The combined sale amounts to 13.2% of the company and brings Goldman's stake down to about 29% and Perry's to about 7.7%. LEG shares are off 3.8% in Frankfurt. Prior to the IPO, Goldman owned 95% of the company, but sold just more than half its stake to the public.
2013-10-22	GS	Goldman agrees to sale of U.K. insurance business	Looking to comply with tougher capital rules, Goldman (GS) notches another major bank divestiture with the sale of a majority stake its U.K. pensions insurance operation, Rothesay Life. Funds managed by Blackstone (BX) and Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC each will acquire 28.5% of the shares, with MassMutual buying 7%. Goldman retains a 36% stake. Blackstone and GIC were previously reported as being near a deal. The terms are undisclosed, but the business has nearly $10B in assets.
2013-10-21	GS	Goldman Sachs vice chairman to retire	Michael Evans has been with Goldman (GS) for more than twenty years, and was named vice chairman in 2008. He's been global head of Growth Markets since 2011. On the board, he was co-chair of the Business Standards Committee which oversaw the massive review of the bank's practices in wake of the financial crisis.
2013-10-21	GS	Goldman to purchase RBS money-market funds	Boosting its fixed-income and liquidity management business in Europe, Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GS) is buying a number of money market funds currently managed by RBS Asset Management (RBS) for an undisclosed amount. GSAM currently has $195B in money market AUM, a third of which is in Europe. This purchase would double the size of the bank's sterling-denominated offerings - the boosted scale should pay off for both Goldman and its customers.
2013-10-21	GS	Energy Future's owners set to lose billions in debt restructure	KKR (KKR), Goldman Sachs Capital Partners (GS) and TPG Capital are set to be almost wiped out if and when their portfolio company, Energy Future Holdings, files for bankruptcy, which could take place this month. The three firms - along with their clients, Lehman, Citigroup (C) and Morgan Stanley (MS) - put up $8.3B when they bought the Texas power utility for $48B in 2007. The rest was financed by debt. With Energy Future collapsing under the weight of that debt, a proposal for the owners to receive as little as $270M in a financial restructuring has been rejected. Confidentiality agreements signed by the various parties involved in Energy Future's talks to are due to lapse today.
2013-10-18	GS	Mayo: JPMorgan "dead money"	Quick takes from CLSA's Mike Mayo following big bank earnings: Morgan Stanley (MS) - "More good news to come," he says, noting margin improved during the seasonally weak Q3. Goldman Sachs (GS) - "Probably a one-quarter miss." He's less optimistic about JPMorgan (JPM) though, calling the stock "dead money at best" thanks to legal issues. You could still have a hangover, even after that settlement." Minutes ago: JPMorgan is reportedly ready to settle with the FHFA for $4B.
2013-10-17	GS	D.C. proving nice excuse early in earnings season	Earnings season is just getting underway, but D.C. is proving a nice excuse for slowing business at banks last quarter and maybe for a weak Q4. Goldman CFO Schwartz (GS -2.6%) is guardedly optimistic, but says executives may just turn their gaze to the next deadline 3 months from now. "It's much easier to do nothing that it is to do something." Earlier: Goldman earnings coverage, conference call transcript. Closer to Main Street, BB&T (BBT -0.5%) chief Kelly KIng is sees a boom if D.C. can put together a decent policy mix. The business leaders he talks to haven't invested at the margin in years and are eager to do so once they feel a sense of confidence returning. "You’ll see a lot of planned expansions, equipment renewals, rolling stock replacements.” Earlier: BB&T earnings coverage, conference call transcript. Bank ETFs: KBE, KBWB, KRE.
2013-10-17	GS	Goldman reviews tough quarter on earnings call	"Franchise feels good, we just had a tough quarter," says Goldman Sachs (GS -2.4%) CFO Harvey Schwartz on the company earnings call (still in Q&A, listen live here). Everyone knew trading revenue was set to take a hit at the big banks this quarter, but Goldman's 44% decline was especially bad (Citi fell 26%, BofA 20%, JPM 8%). Why? Schwartz suggests it's the mix of clients: Goldman has more asset managers who pulled back from trading amid the volatility, while the others cater more to hedge funds who are less likely to shy away from action. "I don't want to sound defensive ... not a good quarter for us." Earlier: Q3 results.
2013-10-17	GS	Big trading revenue drop hits Goldman	A big miss on revenue has Goldman (GS) off 3% in early trades after the release of Q3 earnings, even as the bank tries to soften things with a 10% dividend boost. Blankfein: "The Q3 results reflected a period of slow client activity ... Still, we saw various signs that our clients are prepared to act on significant transactions and we believe that the firm is well positioned to help our clients accomplish their objectives." Investment banking revenue of $1.17B is roughly unchanged from a year ago, with advisory (M&A) business way down and underwriting (IPO) business way up. The backlog "increased significantly" from Q2. Institutional client services revenue of $2.86B fell 32% Y/Y, led by a 44% decline in FICC revenue to $1.25B (even worse than already-weak Street estimates). "FICC operated in a challenging environment, which was characterized by economic uncertainty, difficult market-making conditions in certain businesses and lower levels of activity." Indeed. Ouch! Compensation expense of $2.38B fell 35% from a year ago. The ratio of compensation and benefits to total revenue is 41% over the year's first nine months vs. 44% a year ago. Conference call at 9:30 ET.
2013-10-17	GS	Goldman Sachs declares $0.55/share quarterly dividend	Goldman Sachs (GS) declares $0.55/share quarterly dividend, 10% increase from prior dividend of $0.50. Forward yield 1.35% Payable Dec. 30; for shareholders of record Dec 02; ex-div Nov. 28.
2013-10-17	GS	Goldman Sachs beats by $0.45, misses on revenues	Goldman Sachs (GS): Q3 EPS of $2.88 beats by $0.45. Revenue of $6.72B misses by $0.64B. (PR)
2013-10-17	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ADS, APH, BAX, BBT, BGG, BTU, BX, CY, DGX, DHR, DOV, FCFS, FCS, FITB, GS, HBAN, HLSS, MTB, NUE, ORB, OSTK, PENN, PM, PPG, SNA, SON, SVU, SYNT,TSM, TZOO, UNH, UNP, UTEK, VZ, WGO
2013-10-16	GS	Notable earnings before Thursday’s open	ADS, APH, BAX, BBT, BGG, BTU, BX, CY, DGX, DHR, DOV, FCFS, FCS, FITB, GS, HBAN, HLSS, MTB, NUE, ORB, OSTK, PENN, PM, PPG, SNA, SON, SVU, SYNT,TSM, TZOO, UNH, UNP, UTEK, VZ, WGO
2013-10-16	GS	Fed considers surcharge on banks' physical commodities	The leak - reported by the WSJ - comes as the Fed is looking for a way to force banks into paring back their involvement in physical commodities, and seems aimed at Goldman Sachs (GS +2.7%) and Morgan Stanley (MS +2.1%) who have more leeway to own commodities than the rest of their big bank brethren. The surcharge would avoid a bifurcated situation and make sure all banks are holding the appropriate amount of capital in relation to their assets. Previous: JPMorgan (JPM +3.1%) puts its commodity business on the block, while Morgan Stanley and Goldman cancel their sales.
2013-10-15	GS	Energy Future's creditors unable to agree on restructuring debt	Energy Future Holdings' hopes of a relatively fast and orderly bankruptcy have been thrown into doubt after creditors were reportedly unable to agree on restructuring the Texas power utility's finances. Energy Future owed $43.6B at the end of June. One source of disagreement is the value of Energy Future's Oncor subsidiary, which is separate from the utility's other businesses. A major deadline is November 1, when Energy Future has to make a junior loan payment of $270M. However, senior creditors don't want that payment to be made because of its status. One group of debtees includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, while another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners. Energy Future's owners are KKR (KKR), TPG and Goldman Sachs (GS). (previous)
2013-10-14	GS	Fall in investment banker pay bodes well for Goldman and Morgan Stanley	The big winners from the JPMorgan and Wells Fargo earnings reports were Goldman Sachs (GS -1.3%) and Morgan Stanley (MS -0.6%), according to UBS' Brennan Hawken. Both closed nicely higher Friday, far outperforming the reporting banks, as well as Citigroup and Bank of America. Hawken points to detail buried in JPMorgan's report: Investment banker pay fell 15% Y/Y as investment bank revenue declined just 2%. This brought the compensation to revenue ratio down to 28% - the lowest for any quarter in two years. Not nearly as affected by the mortgage and consumer lending slowdown as the money center banks, Goldman and Morgan Stanley (the shareholders, not the employees) should benefit from the leeway to reduce costs.
2013-10-13	GS	Energy Future nears $3.5B loan	Energy Future Holdings is reportedly close to securing debtor-in-possession financing of over $3B as it prepares a Chapter 11 filing that could come this month. Negotiations over a restructuring plan for the Texas power utility, which owed $43.6B at the end of June, continued last week as creditors looked to ensure that any bankruptcy will be orderly. A major deadline is November 1, when Energy Future is due to pay $270M to junior creditors. One group of debtees includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, while another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners. Energy Future's owners are KKR (KKR), TPG and Goldman Sachs (GS). (previous)
2013-10-11	GS	NY Fed sued for allegedly firing examiner over Goldman claims	A former senior bank examiner at the New York Fed has sued the bank for allegedly firing her because she refused to back down from her assertion that Goldman Sachs (GS) didn't have a company wide conflict-of-interest policy that conformed with federal rules. Carmen Segarra alleges that one of the defendants, Michael Silva, said the Fed "possessed information about Goldman that could cause Goldman to 'explode.'" Silva argued that the bank did have a written conflict-of-interest policy. Segarra also says she found that Goldman Sachs fabricated information about due diligence on a deal involving Banco Santander and misrepresented the New York Fed's authorization of the transaction.
2013-10-9	GS	JPMorgan puts commodity business on the block	The bank values the unit at $3.3B, reports the WSJ, and is telling prospective buyers it generates $750M in annual income before compensation costs (figure about $375M for compensation). JPMorgan (JPM) announced in July its plans to exit the physical commodities business, which it calls "Newco," and separates into four different divisions - North American power, North American natural gas, European power and gas, base metals, coal, and the Henry Bath Metals warehousing network. The 90-page sales book makes no mention of senior bank commodity executives Blythe Masters and Paul Posoli as being available to come along as part of the deal. Morgan Stanley (MS +0.9%) has put the sale of its commodity business on hold as it awaits Fed regulatory decisions. Goldman (GS +0.8%) also put the sale of Metro International Trade on hold.
2013-10-8	GS	Goldman buys 50% of U.K. auto insurer	Goldman Sachs' (GS -0.3%) merchant banking division agrees to purchase a 50% stake in U.K. auto insurer Hastings in a deal valuing the company at $1.13B. Goldman will finance the purchase through a mix of equity and new debt financing. The deal comes after Hastings dropped plans for an IPO earlier this year.
2013-10-7	GS	Zoellick joins Goldman as international advisors chair	Zoellick returns to Goldman Sachs (GS -1.1%), where he will be chairman of the bank's international advisors, and will advise the company on global strategic issues. He'll also oversee the work of the Goldman's 16 international advisors. Zoellick recently completed a 5-year term as president of the World Bank. Prior to that he was vice-chairman, international for Goldman for a short time. Prior to that he had numerous stints in the administrations of  Reagan and the Bushes.
2013-10-4	GS	Goldman, Apollo among bidders for Lloyds' Dublin assets	The asking price for the so-called Ulysses portfolio of 25 Dublin properties is $191M.  Along with Goldman (GS), and Apollo (APO) reportedly submitting bids are Lone Star Funds and Irish brokerage Davy. The properties include the Justice Ministry's headquarters, office buildings, stores, and apartments. Lloyds (LYG) seized most of the Ulysses properties from bubble-time developer Liam Carroll. The bank is selling into a still-depressed market for non-economic reasons (investors and regulators want non-core assets spun off), meaning the buyers will likely be getting themselves a decent deal.
2013-10-3	GS	Banks submit revised "living wills" to regulators	Those with assets greater than $250B were required to submit new plans this month for winding down operations in the event of another financial disaster. The plans differ significantly, but all agree no bailout would be required. The 11 banks submitting: BAC, BK, BCS, C, CS, DB, GS, JPM, STT, UBS. Bank of America makes note of its sale of 20 non-core assets since 2009, and its excess cash and securities. Said securities, says the bank, can be quickly redeemed for cash, whether through outright sale or repo agreements (no haircut if the other 10 are trying to do the exact same thing?).
2013-10-2	GS	Goldman leads investment in troubled Danish utility	As expected, Goldman Sachs' (GS -0.1%) private-equity arm is leading a consortium investing $2B in Denmark's largest utility company, Dong Energy. Holding up the deal prior to now was reaching agreement between the parties (which includes the Danish government) on an exit plan. When the time is right, it will be an IPO.
2013-10-2	GS	Fed widens review of bank commodity ops to include Goldman, MS	The Federal Reserve has reportedly expanded its inquiry of banks' physical commodities activities to include those of Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanely (MS), adding to reviews of Citigroup and JPMorgan. The Fed is looking at the legal and regulatory exemptions that enable the firms to operate in the commodities markets. The scrutiny comes amid accusations that GS and JPM manipulated prices in the aluminum and electricity markets respectively. However, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, as well as Boeing, UPS and other companies, yesterday said that forcing banks out of commodities would cause them difficulties.
2013-9-30	GS	Earnings at top five banks seen taking major hit	Analysts have cut their earnings estimates for the top five U.S. banks by over $1B in total, due to increasing fears about a sharp fall in trading revenue - especially from fixed-income operations - and higher legal costs. JPMorgan (JPM) has been particularly affected, with consensus for net income down $526M to below $5B. The company's legal woes are seen adding $2B to expenses. Analysts have lowered their net income for Bank of America (BAC) by $128M, for Goldman Sachs (GS) by $123M, for Morgan Stanley (MS) by $97M, and for Citigroup (C) by $210M. The latter has already reportedly told investors about a sharp drop in trading revenues. Banks had hoped a big September would help offset a slow summer, but that hasn't happened.
2013-9-30	GS	Berkshire to receive more than $2B in Goldman shares	Berkshire Hathaway (BRK.A, BRK.B) is set to receive over $2B in Goldman Sachs (GS) shares via warrants that the holding company obtained at the height of the financial crisis in 2008, when its investment helped save GS from collapse. Warren Buffett's firm invested $5B for a preferred holding - which GS redeemed in 2011 - and received warrants to acquire $5B in stock for $115 a share. In March, Berkshire agreed to exercise the warrants through a cashless transaction in which it will receive an amount of stock equivalent to its paper profit. GS shares closed at $159.85 on Friday.
2013-9-27	GS	Sanford's Hintz cuts Goldman and Morgan Stanley estimates	Calling the trading decline facing the big banks "a full-scale rout," Sanford's Brad Hintz cuts his Goldman Sachs (GS -1.3%) Q3 EPS estimate 15% to $2.62, and Morgan Stanley's (MS -0.4%) 20% to $0.41. Q3 is typically soft, he notes, but this year is something more and fixed-income trading could decline 20-25%. Analysts are busy cutting estimates after several management warnings and the weak results from already-reported Jefferies. Earlier: Guggenheim's Marty Mosby downgrades Goldman and BofA for similar reasons (tossing in mortgage banking softness as well). A few more cuts and the banks can report a big Q3 whiff next month and still be able to trade higher.
2013-9-27	GS	Goldman nears purchase of stake in Danish utility	Goldman Sachs' (GS -1.2%) private equity unit is leading a group close to buying a stake in Denmark's largest utility, reports Bloomberg. A source says the consortium will pay more than $1.5B for  about a 20% stake in Dong Energy. Denmark's government put the stake on the block last winter amid a restructuring following losing bets on natural gas. At issue in negotiations, according to sources, is an exit plan for the buyers - they'd like to sell back to the government or have a timetable for an IPO.
2013-9-27	GS	Guggenheim cuts BofA and Goldman	Apparent nervousness about bank earnings has Guggenheim removing its Buy ratings on both Bank of America (BAC) and Goldman Sachs (GS). Bank managements (though not necessarily Goldman and BofA) have made no secret this month in presentations, leaks, and interviews that mortgage banking and trading revenue stunk this quarter. Both stocks are off about 0.5% in premarket action.
2013-9-26	GS	Goldman estimates cut at Credit Suisse amid weak trading	As a number of banks come out warning of weak Q3 trading results, Credit Suisse extrapolates the idea right to the industry boss, cutting its Q3 EPS estimate for Goldman Sachs (GS) to $2.10 from $2.63 previous and consensus $2.75. From just this week: Citigroup and Deutsche warn. Last week: Trading revenue at Jefferies vanishes. CS continues to rate Goldman a Buy with $185 price target. Shares +0.25% premarket.
2013-9-25	GS	Goldman to buy Stable Value business from Deutsche	Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GS +0.1%) agrees to acquire Deutsche Bank's (DB -1.9%) stable value business with total AUM of $21.6B. The move is another step by GSAM to grow its defined contribution business which currently manages $55B in defined contribution mandates, including $34B in stable value assets. Last quarter, Goldman reported flat revenue at GSAM, with one analyst noting the bank could be losing share to competitors like Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo.
2013-9-23	GS	Citigroup's warning on trading revenue hits Goldman	Citigroup (C) slips 1% in the premarket after its weekend "pre-announcement" of a big fall in FICC revenue in Q3. The bank had been hoping to get bailed out by a big September, but the Fed's non-taper last week squelched the chance of major portfolio moves by clients. Anybody paying attention surely noticed last week's evaporation of profit at Jefferies (now owned by Leucadia) as fixed-income trading revenue essentially disappeared. Deutshce Bank (DB) is expected to soon be out with a warning similar to Citibank's. Barclays (BCS) and Credit Suisse (CS) have already waved their own red flags over this issue. Not yet heard from are Goldman (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), JPMorgan (JPM), and BofA (BAC), but Goldman is also off nearly 1% premarket.
2013-9-22	GS	Energy Future takes step towards massive bankruptcy filing	Energy Future Holdings' creditors have reportedly signed confidentiality agreements to review the Texas power utility's non-public financial information, an important step in what is expected become one of the largest ever bankruptcy filings. Energy Future, formerly known as TXU Corp., is attempting to reach a prepackaged bankruptcy deal with debtees in order to avoid staying in Chapter 11 for too long. A major deadline is November 1, when Energy Future is due to pay $270M to junior creditors. One group of debtees includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, while another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners. Energy Future's owners are KKR (KKR), TPG and Goldman Sachs (GS).
2013-9-19	GS	Goldman blocked at Treasury auction by technical glitch	A technical glitch in the Treasury's debt-auction system blocked Goldman Sachs' (GS) multi-billion dollar order for 90-day bills (BIL), altering pricing and leaving the bank empty-handed. A total of $30B in bills were moved, but Goldman - one of 21 primary dealers - was left out. When Treasury officials noticed the  botched order, they allotted Goldman more six-month paper, which was being sold at the same time. The snafu looks to have cost Treasury some money as the paper was priced to yield 0.02% at the auction vs. pricing of 0.013% prior to the sale. The Treasury's auction system hasn't broken down in decades, say those familiar with it, and four auctions held since have come off just fine.
2013-9-18	GS	Blankfein shows little desire to pare back commodity business	"This is a core, strategic business for us," says Lloyd Blankfein of Goldman Sachs' (GS -0.7%) commodity operations, making a forceful public commitment to the unit as regulators scheme force the bank out, and some competitors willfully exit. The Fed is expected to decide shortly whether Goldman and Morgan Stanley (MS) should continue to be allowed to broadly trade physical commodities and invest in infrastructure assets. Being in physical commodities was "grandfathered in" when Goldman became a bank holding company in 2008, says Blankfein, by dint of the bank being involved in the business for more than 100 years. Blankfein got his start in Goldman's J Aron commodity unit. Earlier from Blankfein.
2013-9-18	GS	Blankfein: Fed shouldn't taper more than $10B	"I get a lot of surprises in my line of work; very few as positive as that," says Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO Lloyd Blankfein of the company's inclusion in the DJIA. Appearing on CNBC, Blankfein bullet points through a number of issues: Markets have priced in a taper of $10B or less, but anything more than that could make them "sad" as the 150 basis point move in the 10-year yield has already tightened policy (did Blankfein just demand the Fed not move more than $10B?). On keeping firm money with Steven Cohen, Blankfein says it's not appropriate to withdraw funds just because of the indictment and the government wouldn't want that either. On JPMorgan's London Whale fines - the mistakes are old news and the settlement isn't a big deal.
2013-9-18	GS	P-E firms battle as Energy Future heads towards bankruptcy	An almighty fight has been brewing between private-equity firms over who will get paid what in the expected bankruptcy filing of Texas power company Energy Future Holdings, which owes over $40B to creditors. One group of debtees includes Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree Capital, and another involves Blackstone Group's (BX) GSO Capital Partners. Meanwhile, Energy Future's owners, KKR (KKR), TPG and Goldman Sachs (GS), which bought the utility in 2007 for $32B plus about $13B in assumed debt, are hoping to keep some equity in any Chapter 11. They've already written their investment down to almost zero. Complicating matters is that if Energy Futures were to break up, a massive tax bill would need to be paid. The sides are due to meet on Friday to try to resolve the dispute.
2013-9-16	GS	Goldman passes self-administered stress test	Goldman Sachs' (GS +2.2%) Tier 1 common capital ratio would fall to 8.9% in the nine quarters up to mid-2015 under the "severely adverse scenario" in its self-administered stress test, up from this spring's prediction of 8.6%. Losses would foot to $6.2B on revenue of $15.5B, down from a $6.6B loss on $20.4B in revenue at the spring estimate. Like with Ciitgroup (previous), the severe scenario assumes a large decline in GDP, a sustained rise in unemployment, and falling interest rates (like for Citi, why not test sharply higher rates?). The Fed's stress test - the CCAR - at which banks' capital return plans will be accepted or not - takes place next year, with results due in March. Goldman's Mid-Cycle Stress Test Results.
2013-9-16	GS	Goldman gets new quant chief	Goldman Sachs (GS) Chief Information Officer Steven Scopellite is retiring, reports Reuters, citing internal memos. He will be replaced as head of the bank's team of quants by R. Martin Chavez, who is currently co-chief operating officer of equities. Another company memo has Don Duet and Paul Walker being promoted to co-heads of technology, where they will report to Chavez.
2013-9-16	GS	Bankers on the hook as Rue21 deal looks less appealing	JPMorgan (JPM), Goldman Sachs (GS), and BofA (BAC) could be out tens of millions of dollars on commitments the banking trio made to help finance the $1.1B buyout of Rue21 (RUE), according to The New York Post. Potential buyers of the debt that was created to finance the Rue21 buyout are increasingly skittish with apparel retailers suffering from a weak Back to School season and cutting guidance heading into the holiday season. On a valuation basis, the $42 deal price for Rue21 looks quite lush.
2013-9-12	GS	Twitter confidentially files for IPO under JOBS Act	Twitter discloses through its own service it has "confidentially submitted an S-1 to the SEC for a planned IPO." The microblogging leader, forecast by eMarketer to pull in 2013 revenue of $580M, has been valued at ~$10B on private markets. Sky News reports Twitter will list on the NYSE (NYX) rather than the Nasdaq (NDAQ); Facebook chose the latter. Bloomberg reports Goldman (GS) will act as the lead underwriter. GSV Capital (GSVC), which estimated its Twitter stake was worth $37.6M at the end of Q2, is up 8.7% AH.
2013-9-12	GS	Goldman probed in Switzerland over labor practices	Goldman's (GS -1.1%) Zurich offices were examined by regional labor department inspectors after a bank employee lobbying group lodged a complaint about long hours. Goldman allegedly failed to keep proper track of employee working hours or compensate for overtime, reports a local newspaper. Swiss labor laws limit working hours for those employed in industrial plants, offices, large shops, and technical professions to no more than 45 hours per week. Anything above that needs to be recorded and compensated for by the employer.
2013-9-11	GS	Fed seen limiting banks' commodities operations	The Federal Reserve is expected to soon publish guidelines, possibly this month, that would restrict banks' involvement in physical-commodities businesses as part of an attempt to limit the firms' risky activities. The new rules could accelerate the withdrawal of JPMorgan (JPM), Morgan Stanley (MS) and Goldman Sachs (GS) from sectors such as metals warehousing, oil shipping and power generation. Fed deliberations on the matter come as GS and JPM face scrutiny over allegations that they intentionally drove up prices in aluminum and electricity markets respectively. The latter has already said it will exit the physical business and sell its trading operations, but GS believes it should be allowed to trade.
2013-9-10	GS	South Korea investigates Goldman, CS, and RBS over bond sales	The Financial Supervisory Service has launched an investigation into whether Goldman Sachs (GS +3.3%), Credit Suisse (CS +2%), and Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS +3.8%) violated local laws when they sold foreign-issued bonds to Korean investors directly from overseas offices, reports the WSJ. Korean law says such paper can only be sold in-country from banks' local branches. A source says the agency is nearly finished gathering information from Goldman and is set to move on to Credit Suisse. Any decision on what action to take will be made after information has been gathered from all three. Searching for yield just like the rest of us, Korean institutional investors have begun to buy structured fixed-income products from abroad in recent years, with Credit Suisse particularly active in selling the products.
2013-9-10	GS	Change coming to DJIA weighting?	Notably not included in this morning's new additions to the Dow Jones Industrial Average were Apple and Google. "We had to think about it, but the arithmetic doesn't work," S&P's David Blitzer tells CNBC. Blitzer hints of a possible change coming to the Dow weighting scheme. The DJIA is currently price-weighted, meaning the share price is more important to a company's weight in the index rather than market cap. A back-of-the-envelope calculation finds Apple would be about 30% of the Dow were it added! Indeed an S&P Dow Jones statement says the low share price of Alcoa (AA), Bank of America (BAC), and H-P (HPQ) was a key reason for their removal. The real-money impact on those removed and added (GS, NKE, V) won't be huge as a relatively small amount of money is indexed to the DJIA. The DIA has about $12B in AUM vs. the SPY with $136B. ETFs: DDM, UDOW, DXD, SDOW, DOG.
2013-9-10	GS	Alcoa, BofA, and H-P dropped from DJIA	Alcoa (AA), Bank of America (BAC), and Hewlett-Packard (HPQ) are being removed from the Dow Jones Industrial Average. They will be replaced with Goldman Sachs (GS), Nike (NKE), and Visa (V). The changes will be made effective with the open of trade on September 23. AA -1.4%, BAC +0.2%, HPQ -1.4%, GS +2.6%, NKE +2.7%, V +2.5% premarket. DJIA ETFs: DIA, DDM, UDOW, DXD, SDOW, DOG.
2013-9-9	GS	TD Ameritrade index shows clients buying August's dip	The TD Ameritrade Investor Movement Index increased 5.95% to 5.16 in August as markets stumbled, meaning clients continued their pattern of selling the rips and buying the dips - the index previously fell in July as stocks rallied. There was no contrarian action in Tesla (TSLA), where clients continued to buy as it gained for the month. Dip-buying was notable, however, in a number of basic material companies, including BP, Kinder Morgan (KMP), and Potash (POT). Clients were net sellers in financial names like Bank of America (BAC) and Goldman Sachs (GS), and they faded rallies in Apple (AAPL) and Facebook (FB). Other popular names sold included Chesapeake Energy (CHK), Merck (MRK), and Qualcomm (QCOM).
2013-9-6	GS	Goldman moving forward with sale of European insurance business	Goldman Sachs (GS) is in talks to sell a majority stake in Rothesay Life with Blackstone (BX) and Singapore sovereign wealth fund GIC, reports the FT. The bank last month said the business - with nearly $10B in assets - was on the block and it expected a sale within the year. It's another in a long line of divestitures at global banks as they look to comply with tougher capital rules.
2013-8-28	GS	Legal costs for major U.S. banks top $100B	The U.S.'s six largest banks have accumulated legal costs of $103B so far since the financial crisis, Bloomberg calculates, noting that the figure is greater than the amount they've paid in dividends in the past five years. Legal fees and litigation costs account for $56B and the rest is for payments to mortgage investors. JPMorgan's (JPM) legal bill is $21.3B while it has allocated $8.1B for mortgage buybacks. Bank of America's (BAC) legal expenses are $19.1B and its repurchase provisions $28.6B. The other banks are Citigroup (C), Wells Fargo (WFC), Goldman (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS).
2013-8-26	GS	Goldman puts 4 on leave after trading error	The four senior technology specialists were put on leave following last week's trading glitch which is likely to cost the bank tens of millions of dollars. Last week Goldman (GS) accidentally sent thousands of orders for options contracts to exchanges after a systems upgraded went awry.
2013-8-25	GS	Stock exchanges in merger talks	BATS Global Markets (BATS) is reportedly in advanced negotiations to merge with Direct Edge Holdings in an all-stock deal that would create the second-largest exchange operator in the U.S. in terms of shares traded, putting it behind the NYSE (NYX) but ahead of Nasdaq (NDAQ). BATS CEO Joseph Ratterman is expected to become the head of the new firm, while Direct Edge boss William O'Brien would become president. The companies plan to continue operating all four of their U.S. stock-exchange platforms after the merger. Both firms are profitable, with BATS earning EBITDA of $101M in 2012. Direct Edge's owners include KCG Holdings (KCG), Goldman Sachs (GS), Citadel and the International Securities Exchange. Those of BATS include KCG also, as well as Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB), JPMorgan (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS).
2013-8-22	GS	Moody's puts major U.S. banks on review	Goldman Sachs (GS), JPMorgan (JPM), Morgan Stanley (MS), and Wells Fargo (WFC) are on review for downgrade as the agency considers reducing its assumption for how much government support they're likely to get. Bank of America (BAC) and Citigroup (C) are also on review, but for "direction uncertain" as Moody's considers what may be more than offsetting improvements in their standalone credit strength. Mellon Bank (BK) and State Street (STT) - whose ratings are already under the scope - will also be included in this new review. Moody's telegraphed its intention to undertake this move back in March. All of the above stocks are off marginally in AH trade. Source: Moody's.
2013-8-21	GS	Goldman invests $40M in Salesforce rival SugarCRM	The maker of sales-tracking software looking to take on rivals like Salesforce.com (CRM) and Oracle (ORCL) will use the cash for further R&D and to expand its sales efforts. Prior to Goldman's (GS) investment, the company had raised $79M. CEO Larry Augustin hasn't commented on valuation beyond saying it's "up and to the right" since the last financing round. Augustin said late last year the company is nearing profitability and could go public as soon 2013 (joining other recent IPOs WDAY and NOW). Goldman VP Antoine Munfa will join SugarCRM's board.
2013-8-21	GS	Goldman losses on erroneous trades could hit $100M	Goldman Sachs' (GS) losses from erroneous trades that disrupted options exchanges yesterday could amount to $100M if they weren't canceled, the FT reports, citing market participants. The trades occurred on the NYSE Euronext, CBOE and Nasdaq, which are reviewing the transactions. The NYSE expects to void most of the trades.
2013-8-21	GS	Banks' hiring of well-connected relatives in China widespread	While the SEC is only now investigating JPMorgan (JPM) for possibly hiring the children of influential officials in China to win business, the recruitment by major banks of well-connected relatives has been going on for over a decade. Goldman Sachs (GS) once employed the grandson of former Chinese President Jiang Zemin and Credit Suisse (CS) the daughter of ex-Prime Minister Wen Jiabao. In 2006, the son-in-law of of a politburo member helped Merrill Lynch (BAC) win a deal to work on the $22B IPO of state-owned bank ICBC. While some of the recruits work hard, others barely make it to the office. Still, regulators might find it difficult to prove a direct connection between an appointment and the obtaining of a contract.
2013-8-21	GS	Lloyds to sell over £500M worth of assets	Lloyds (LYG) has agreed to sell German life insurer unit Heidelberger Leben for £250M to a joint venture of private equity group Cinven and Hannover Re. The U.K. bank expects the sale to lead to a loss on disposal of around £330M, but combined with other divestments, should strengthen the group's common equity tier 1 capital by around £400M. The deal is part of Lloyds' strategy of "rationalizing its international presence." (PR) Separately, Lloyds has also agreed to sell a portfolio of leveraged loans to Goldman Sachs (GS) unit ELQ Investors II for at least £254M. The portfolio mainly comprises U.K.-based assets in a range of sectors, including manufacturing and retail. (PR)
2013-8-20	GS	Reuters: Goldman Sachs enjoys inside track on U.S. crude-by-rail boom	While the role of Goldman Sachs (GS) in global metals markets has fallen under a harsh regulatory spotlight recently, it also has quietly enjoyed a "privileged front-row seat" to the booming business of shipping crude by rail, Reuters reports. Through a minority stake in a small, privately-held Texas company, GS has financed the expansion of nearly a dozen train terminals, and its ownership "could provide the bank with valuable insight" into the shipping-by-rail market. Private sector investments have long been a common part of merchant banking, but the stakes could attract scrutiny at a time of strong political pressure on Wall Street investments in commodities markets.
2013-8-20	GS	Exchanges investigate mistaken orders from Goldman	Goldman Sachs (GS +0.7%) mistakenly issued a number of orders into the stock-options market just after the market opened, temporarily roiling prices in a number of contracts. The orders were placed on securities with ticker symbols beginning with the letters H through L, and traders suspect an algo gone wild. Many of the trades are likely to be canceled. "Neither the risk nor the potential loss is material to the financial condition of the firm," says Goldman. Among the exchanges investigating are the NYSE (NYX), the CBOE, and the Amex.
2013-8-20	GS	Goldman Sachs makes €500M P-E investment	The U.K.'s Duke Street Capital abandoned plans for an €850M LBO fund last year amid weak investor demand, and this year sold 35% of itself for €30M with the plan of using the money for a new fund. Goldman's (GS) GS Vintage Fund VI - dedicated to buying commitments in funds rather than purchasing companies directly - will invest €100M in the new fund as well as €400M buying out existing investors in Duke's previous pool.
2013-8-16	GS	Western banks line up for stake in China's Huarong Asset Management	Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), and Deutsche Bank (DB) want to get a piece of the $1.5B-$2B stake sale ahead of what's expected to be an IPO next year, reports the FT. Huarong is the largest of the four funds set up in 1999 to help clean up the last asset bubble there by removing about $230B in bad loans from the country's big 4 state-owned banks. The western banks want in amid concern about another wave of bad loans across China which would be manna for companies like Huarong. The fund reportedly plans to sell a  15-20% stake in itself to set the table for an IPO - similar to plans for Cinda Asset Management, another bad loan vehicle.
2013-8-13	GS	CFTC subpoenas metal warehouse companies	The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has reportedly subpoenaed Goldman Sachs (GS), JPMorgan (JPM), Glencore Xstrata (GLCNF.PK) and their subsidiaries for documents relating to warehouses they operate for aluminum and other metals. The agency has requested information dating back to January 2010; it also wants documents relevant to the companies' relationships with the London Metals Exchange. The CFTC's investigation follows allegations that the activities of warehousing companies have artificially boosted the price of metals, particularly aluminum. Earlier speculation said the CFTC had sent subpoenas to an unnamed metals warehousing firm.
2013-8-12	GS	CFTC subpoenas metals warehouse company	The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has subpoenaed an unnamed metals warehousing firm for all of its documents and communications related to the London Metal Exchange since January 2010, Reuters reports. The subpoena focuses on "anything that relates to moving metal from one warehouse to another within the same company... and procedures for loading out." The CFTC last month ordered the warehouse to preserve emails, documents and instant messages from the past three years. In July, the NYT reported that warehouses which received such an order included Goldman Sachs (GS), Glencore (GLNCY.PK) and Noble Group (NOBGF.PK) Meanwhile, Department of Justice officials has visited a warehousing company different to the one referred to above and asked about its operations. Warehouses have been under increasing scrutiny over allegations that their activities have artificially boosted the price of metals, particularly aluminum.
2013-8-9	GS	Goldman names former EMEA ECM chief to private-equity role	Chief of EMEA equity capital markets, convertibles, and equity derivatives Alasdair Warren will head up Goldman Sachs' (GS) financial sponsors group for EMEA, Reuters says, citing an internal memo.
2013-8-9	GS	Lawsuits against Goldman over aluminum activities piling up	A steel-railings manufacturer from Texas called Viva Railings and a scrap-metal dealer from Michigan called Regal Recycling have joined up to sue Goldman Sachs (GS) in New York for allegedly artificially boosting the price of aluminum by hoarding the metal in its warehouses. The case adds to a lawsuit in Florida against Goldman, J.P. Morgan, the London Metal Exchange and Glencore Xstrata, and one against Goldman and the LME in Michigan. The CFTC and the Department of Justice are also looking into the allegations. The legal and regulatory activity follows an NYT investigation into how Goldman's activities have driven up aluminum prices.
2013-8-8	GS	Goldman Sachs puts European insurance unit on the block	Goldman (GS) plans to sell a majority stake in its European insurance business - Rothesay Life with $9.66B in assets - in the next year, according to its 10-Q. The move comes as Goldman and its banking brethren cope with new capital rules and follows Goldman's shedding of the majority of its U.S. reinsurance unit in April. In other news from the filing, Goldman says risk-weighted assets are dropping faster than expected - $600B at June's end. They were $728B a year ago and CEO Blankfein predicted they'd drop to $700B by the end of 2013.
2013-8-8	GS	Blackstone hires banks for Hilton IPO	Blackstone (BX) has reportedly hired a number of banks to lead an IPO of Hilton Worldwide, which the private-equity firm took private in 2007 in a $26.7B leveraged buyout, one of the largest before the financial crisis. The deal included $7B in assumed debt. The flotation is expected to take place in H1 next year. The banks involved - which are so far Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS), Bank of America (BAC) and Morgan Stanley (MS) - are expected to help Hilton refinance $13B in debt. The speculation comes as a rebound in demand for hotel rooms and not enough supply has led to a boom in the hotel sector. Hilton's pro forma EBITDA rose 17% in H1; 2013 EBITDA is forecast to be 58% higher than in 2009. The speculation also follows reports yesterday that Blackstone is looking to exit La Quinta Inns & Suites, a budget hotel chain.
2013-8-7	GS	Banks go for market share in currency business	Currency trading has thus far escaped the regulatory scrutiny faced by most of the other large bank business lines. Combined with a jump in currency volatility this year, it's unleashed an intense fight for market share. Bank of America (BAC), Goldman Sachs (GS), and Morgan Stanley (MS) - smaller players in FX - have stepped up their efforts to take business from traditional giants Deutsche Bank (DB), Barclays (BCS), and JPMorgan (JPM), according to those in the know. Smaller firms like BTIG, Newedge, FXCM, and Gain Capital (GCAP) have further fragmented the market. The lack of regulatory zeal means banks can fund currency trading with less capital than other lines of business. FX contributed just 8% of FICC revenue in 2012, down from 36% 4 years earlier. Average daily trading volume of currencies was $5.6T in June, up from $4.9T in May.
2013-8-7	GS	Another lawsuit filed over aluminum warehouse issues	The latest (#2 this week) expands the defendant list to JPMorgan (JPM) and Glencore (GLNCF.PK). Defendants in suit #1 - Goldman Sachs (GS) and the LME - are named in this complaint as well. The second suit has been filed in district court in Florida by Master screens. "There are no queues at our warehouses. We believe this suit has no merit," says a JPMorgan spokesman.
2013-8-4	GS	Goldman, LME are co-defendants in class-action suit	A class action lawsuit has been filed against Goldman Sachs (GS) and the London Metal Exchange alleging antitrust violations in connection with the firms' aluminum warehousing practices. (full complaint) Superior Extrusion, a maker of extruded aluminum products, is the lead plaintiff. Both Goldman and the LME say the suit has no merit. This is the latest setback for Goldman as it tries to defend itself against allegations its aluminum warehousing activities have played a role in creating long waits for the metal and driving up prices for consumers. (previous coverage)
2013-8-2	GS	"Fabulous Fab" found liable in GS bond fraud	Former Goldman Sachs (GS) trader Fabrice Toure has been found liable on six out of seven counts of civil fraud for his role in a sub-prime mortgage bond that cost investors $1B. "Fabulous Fab," as he was known, sold the security in 2007 without disclosing that hedge fund Paulson & Co, which helped construct the deal, also bet that it would fail. Toure faces being banned from the financial industry and fines of $5,000-130,000 for each violation. It's a major victory for the SEC in a case stemming from the financial crisis, but some are questioning why the agency focused on a mid-level employee while other bigger fish have been left untouched.
2013-7-31	GS	Goldman responds to concerns over metal warehousing	Following recent stories of concern regarding its metals warehouses, Goldman Sachs (GS +1.6%) makes a few suggestions to the LME and takes its own unilateral action The LME should alter current rules which treat all customers waiting to get their metal out on a first in, first out basis. Instead, says Goldman, the LME should establish a system to prioritize customers so they always have access to a minimum load rate for end users. For itself, Goldman is contacting end users to offer to swap any aluminum currently in queue for immediately available aluminum. "When a lot of customers want to get their property out of (any) warehouse at the same time, a line forms. This is no different in the case of metal warehouses."
2013-7-30	GS	Banks' commodities businesses face Senate probe	Carl Levin's Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has reportedly launched a probe into banks' roles in physical commodity markets, with information requests recently sent to JPMorgan (JPM), Goldman (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), and their primary regulator, the Fed, according to a source. The three TBTFs have been particularly aggressive in building up their trading businesses in the world of oil, metals, gas, and other raw materials over the last decade. Consumers have complained of long wait times and spiky prices in things like aluminum as the banks have increased their presence in the warehouse business, for instance (Goldman responds to those charges).
2013-7-30	GS	Banks sued again over CDS monopoly	An affiliate of MF Global sues, alleging 11 banks engaged in anticompetitive practices to keep the company out of the lucrative clearing business for swaps It's the third U.S.lawsuit making such claims (previous), and the EU has also filed suit Those charged: BAC, BCS, C, CS, DB, GS, MS, RBS, UBS JPMorgan (JPM) is named as a co-conspirator, while the ISDA and Markit are named separately as defendants One source suggests the 3 U.S. claims could be consolidated into one case
2013-7-29	GS	Intuitive Surgical ups repurchase program to $1.5B	Intuitive Surgical (ISRG +3%) raises its buyback program by $779M to $1.5B, which includes $721M not yet realized. As part of the altered program, Intuitive is purchasing $500M of stock from Goldman Sachs (GS), the majority of which will be retired by the end of October. (PR)
2013-7-24	GS		"It looks to us like a decelerating (M&A) market," Citigroup M&A chief Mark Shafir tells CNBC, not believing corporate managements can't find anything better to do with their cash other than buybacks. "There's not a lot of risk preference in the boardroom." There's not much expectations-wise at Citigroup for M&A, but at Goldman (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) it could be a different story.
2013-7-23	GS		It's the aluminum owners - not the warehouse operators - who control the disposition and location of metal stored in or outside the LME-approved warehouse system, says Goldman Sachs (GS), responding to charges it and other warehouse owners (JPM, MS) illicitly drove up the price of aluminum.
2013-7-23	GS		The Commodity Futures Trading Commission has told Goldman Sachs (GS), Glencore (GLNCY.PK), Noble Group (NOBGF.PK) and other companies that operate aluminum warehouses to retain internal documents and e-mails related to the businesses, the NYT reports. The move could presage a formal inquiry into the operations and comes after the paper reported how the activities of warehouse owners had driven up the price of the metal. It also comes ahead of a Senate hearing today into the commodities operations of major banks such as Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS).
2013-7-21	GS		The physical commodities activities of major banks such as Goldman Sachs (GS), JPMorgan (JPM) and Morgan Stanley (MS) are set to be the subject of a Senate hearing on Tuesday, when legislators will explore whether banks should be allowed to continue to store metal, transport oil and operate mines. On Friday, the Fed said it's reviewing whether banks that take deposits should allowed to trade physical commodities. The Senate hearing and Fed review come amid an NYT investigation into how GS's activities have driven up aluminum prices.
2013-7-18	GS		A lawsuit accusing P-E firms of colluding to drive down prices of target acquisition companies is given the green light to move forward by a federal judge. Those charged include Blackstone (BX), Carlyle (CG), KKR, and the P-E arm of Goldman Sachs (GS). Apollo Global (APO) was one of two firms which successfully won dismissal of the suit.
2013-7-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS -1.4%) is downgraded to Outperform from Buy by CSLA's Mike Mayo, even as he raises his price target to $185 from $176 and ups earnings estimates through 2015. It's mostly a valuation call, but Mayo also notes the firm taking more risk in trading and investments, as well as continued regulatory and global macro headwinds. (earnings earlier) (CC transcript)
2013-7-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) can't manage a gain despite positive headline numbers on earnings, with Antoine Gara calling the beat a low-quality one attributable to $1.42B in revenue posted from rising marks on the bank's P-E investments and securities portfolio. This likely isn't sustainable as regulators work to constrain Goldman's activities in these areas. While debt underwriting posted a record number, equity underwriting saw a 5% decline in Q2. Flat revenue at GSAM asset management suggests competitors like Wells Fargo and Morgan Stanley are taking market share. Asked on the CC about his comfort with current leverage, CFO Schwartz responds, "Comfortable, I am not trying to get cute with you."
2013-7-16	GS		More on Goldman Sachs (GS) Q2 earnings: EPS of $3.70 beat expectations by $0.89 and compared to $1.78 a year ago. Investment banking revenue of $1.55B up 29% Y/Y, with Underwriting revenue up 45% to $1.07B. Investment banking backlog is about unchanged from Q1. Trading revenue (FICC) of $2.46B, up 12% Y/Y - "favorable" conditions for most of the quarter became "more challenging" towards the end. Operating expenses of $5.97B up 14% Y/Y, with compensation expense of $3.7B up 27%. Ratio of compensation to revenue of 43% in H1 vs. 44% in H1 2012. CC at 9:30 ET. Shares +1.2% premarket. (PR)
2013-7-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS): Q2 EPS of $3.70 beats by $0.89. Revenue of $8.61B beats by $0.35B. (PR)
2013-7-16	GS		The $4.7B buyer of Smithfield Foods (SFD) - Shuanghui International - plans a Hong Kong IPO after closing the purchase, reports Reuters, with sources saying Hong Kong would place a higher valuation on the company than exchanges elsewhere. The move would provide an exit route for Shuanghui's P-E investors, including Goldman Sachs (GS).
2013-7-16	GS		Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open: CMA, GS, JNJ, KO, MOS
2013-7-15	GS		Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open: CMA, GS, JNJ, KO, MOS
2013-7-12	GS		The usual suspects in the banking fraternity are the subject of another class-action suit over price-fixing in the CDS market, with the plaintiffs in this case being 4 Danish pension funds. The case was filed in federal court in Illinois, the same locale as a similar complaint logged in May by a labor union. Across the pond, the EU this month filed their own charges. Banks named: BAC, BCS, C, CS, DB, GS, HBC, JPM, MS, RBS, UBS, BNPQY.PK.
2013-7-11	GS		Bank of America (BAC) is best-positioned to take advantage of wider net interest spreads and expense cuts, according the Morgan Stanley's Betsy Graseck, in a preview of Q2 earnings (underway tomorrow with JPMorgan and Wells Fargo). Next on the list of those expected to beat estimates are Capital One (COF), PNC Financial, and JPMorgan (JPM). Three names set to disappoint: Citigroup (C), Goldman Sachs (GS), and BNY Mellon (BK).
2013-7-9	GS		The FDIC looks set to approve dual standards for bank leverage capital ratios of 5% for the holding companies and 6% for the banking units. The 3% minimum set by Basel "would not have appreciably mitigated the growth in leverage" prior to the financial crisis, says FDIC head Martin Gruenberg. The changes will apply to those deemed globally important: JPM, C, WFC, GS, BAC, MS, STT, BK. Set your calendars: The banks have until Jan. 1, 2018 to comply.
2013-7-4	GS	Stadium food and clothing vendor Aramark Corp. is reportedly preparing an IPO six years after it...	Stadium food and clothing vendor Aramark Corp. (ARMK) is reportedly preparing an IPO six years after it was taken private for $6.3B by then-CEO and current Chairman Joseph Neubauer and a group of P-E firms that included GS Capital Partners (GS). Aramark generated EBITDA of $1.1B on revenues of $13.5B in the fiscal year ended September 28, but it also had debts of $5.4B - a legacy of its buyout.
2013-7-3	GS		The results of the first-ever "mid-cycle" stress tests of the big banks are due Friday. Unlike the Fed exams completed in March, these tests are self-administered and based on scenarios of the banks' own choosing. Will any fail themselves? Worth watching are BB&T (BBT) and Ally Financial - both of whom failed the Fed test. Others required to submit: GS, JPM, BAC, BK, AXP, COF, C, FITB, MS, PNC, RF, STT, STI, USB, WFC.
2013-7-2	GS		Citi's Keith Horowitz lowers Q2 EPS estimates for Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) as a tough June erases optimism from the start of the quarter. He sees Goldman reporting EPS of $2.70, down from $3.10 previously and against consensus of $2.83. Morgan is cut to $0.42 vs. consensus of $0.45. JPMorgan (JPM) might still surprise to the upside thanks to a boost from lower mortgage loss reserves. His $0.27 forecast for Bank of America (BAC) is ahead of the Street at $0.25, and Lazard (LAZ) at $0.33 is also modestly ahead of consensus.
2013-7-2	GS		There's another management change in Goldman Sachs' (GS) Asian operations where David Ryan - President of Goldman Asia, ex-Japan - has resigned to be replaced with Ken Hitchner, a NY banker who made his bones doing health-care deals. Goldman has retained its #1 ranking in Asian share sales, but has fallen to #4 in M&A work.
2013-7-1	GS		The private-equity owners of Biomet - which include Blackstone (BX), KKR (KKR) and Goldman Sachs' (GS) P-E fund - are reportedly considering an IPO for the artificial hip and knee maker six years after taking it private for $11.4B. Since then, annual revenues have increased to $3B from $2.1B and EBITDA to $946M from $587M, while debt has fallen to $5.9B from $6.3B. Given that rival Stryker is valued at around 8.5X EBITDA, Biomet's theoretical value could be $8B, meaning that the P-E firms are set to make a loss.
2013-7-1	GS		The EU logs antitrust charges against Markit, the ISDA and 13 banks for blocking exchanges in the credit derivatives business. "The banks acted collectively to shut out exchanges from the market because they feared that exchange trading would have reduced their revenues." Banks charged: BAC, BCS, C, MS, CS, DB, GS, HBC, JPM, RBS, UBS, BNPQY.PK.
2013-6-26	GS		Morgan Stanley (MS -0.1%) and Goldman Sachs (GS -0.2%) each have their Q2 earnings estimates cut by Atlantic Equities' Richard Staite. He thinks volumes have slowed of late and the banks may have suffered losses on their fixed-income inventories. FICC revenue at Morgan should be $1.25B in Q2, a big gain from a year ago, but short of the company's $1.5B-$2.5B target. He sees Morgan's Q2 EPS at $0.42 vs. $0.48 consensus, and Goldman's at $2.70 vs. $2.94 consensus.
2013-6-24	GS		Major banks have reportedly made proposals to the Fed on how to pay for the restructuring of large financial institutions that collapse, with the idea being to avoid the chaos that followed Lehman's bankruptcy. Among the suggestions, the largest financial-services holding companies would maintain combined debt and equity equal to 14% of their risk-weighted assets, which would be used to support any failed bank unit seized by regulators.
2013-6-21	GS		Laszlo Birinyi remains bullish on the whole (video), viewing the recent drop as a "normal correction reacting to some unexpected news." He's into financials, recently buying Goldman Sachs (GS) and Citigroup (C); he's not buying Apple (AAPL) right now even though it's one of his firm's largest holdings. Gold miners (GDX) are his biggest short, especially Barrick Gold (ABX) and Newmont Mining (NEM).
2013-6-21	GS		A check of the TBTFs finds Wells Fargo (WFC +0.9%) the only gainer amidst a floated report the Fed and FDIC are weighing a doubling in the "simple leverage ratio." Wells already exceeds the 6% proposed ratio, but presumably BofA (BAC -2.8%), JPMorgan (JPM -1.3%), Citigroup (C -4%), Goldman (GS -1.7%), and Morgan Stanley (MS -3.1%) would need to halt or pare back dividends and buybacks should the rule be implemented. The financial SPDR (XLF -1.4%).
2013-6-21	GS		Montgomery County, PA's pension board has shifted nearly all of its $470M in assets to a basket of Vanguard index funds. Helping cement the move was a short trip down 202 to the offices of John Bogle. For the last 3 years, the pension fund returned an average 8.22% vs. a Vanguard index fund (with far lower fees) returning 12.51%. "There is no value for the county ... to be spending these fees and getting a lower return," says Commissioner Josh Shapiro. Don't let the word get out. Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM) - among those losing the business - declined to comment.
2013-6-21	GS		U.S. regulators are reportedly considering raising the amount of capital that the country's largest banks must hold to 6% of total assets, regardless of their risk. This minimum requirement, known as the simple leverage ratio, would be double that stipulated under Basel rules and above the 4% that is mandatory in the U.S. Wells Fargo (WFC) is the only one out of the five largest banks in the U.S. that would meet the new regulation.
2013-6-20	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is out of one of the year's bigger deals, not getting a promised piece of the Smithfield acquisition after Smithfield learned of the investment bank's stake in acquirer, Shuanghui International. Lloyd Blankfein has said conflicts are a way of life in the business, but Goldman manages them just fine. Smithfield advisor Barclays (BCS) stands to reap a big windfall on the deal.
2013-6-12	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is buying a big batch of the "bad bank" loan book of Suncorp (SNMYF.PK) for $960M. What it's getting for the money is A$1.6B of loans for an average 60 cents on the dollar. Suncorp will book a loss of about A$480M in 2H13 and is expected to issue a special dividend to return surplus capital to investors.
2013-6-8	GS		Boring stocks can bring exciting returns, Mark Hulbert discovers, as his research reveals stocks exhibiting the least historical volatility on average comfortably outperform the most "exciting" (i.e., volatile) issues. One believer in the boring-is-beautiful school, Guggenheim Partners' Nardin Baker, likes these stocks: SO. D, KMB, CL, COST. Too volatile are AAPL, GS, C, MS, HPQ. MET.
2013-6-3	GS		The General Motors Building in Manhattan has become the most valuable office property in America after the families of Chinese property developer Zhang Xin and Brazil's Safra banking empire acquired a 40% in the 50-story skyscraper for $1.4B. The sellers were a group of Persian Gulf interests, some of whom are represented by a Goldman Sachs (GS) fund. The other 60% is being retained by Boston Properties (BXP). Reports of the deal, which values the GM Building at $3.4B, follow news that Carlyle is selling a 27-story Manhattan building for $1.3B.
2013-6-3	GS		A New York court is due to start a hearing today over whether it should approve Bank of America (BAC) $8.5B agreement to settle claims with investors over soured mortgage bonds. While heavyweights such as BlackRock (BLK) and Goldman Sachs (GS) support the deal, it faces opposition from AIG (AIG), which says it has $10.5B worth of claims against BofA. Approval of the agreement would enable the bank to take a major step in cleaning up the mess it inherited when it bought Countrywide.
2013-5-31	GS		CME Group fines Goldman Sachs (GS) $875K (not a typo) over its failure to "diligently supervise" a top Treasury futures trader in 2008. The trader - who now works at Morgan Stanley - will also be suspended from CME access for 10 days. As is customary, neither the trader nor Goldman admitted or denied the violations.
2013-5-31	GS		Large-cap banks are poised for multiple expansion, says Sterne Agee, as discussions with managements along with data points from recent investor presentations suggest business in Q2 is doing better than expectations. The team is recommending a basket of C, JPM, MS, and GS. In a similar vein, they like a basket of "discounted regionals" - PNC, MTB, RF, USB, and STI.
2013-5-31	GS		Lloyds (LYG) will make a handsome profit from a portfolio of U.S. mortgage bonds after agreeing to sell the assets to different institutions for £3.3B. That's above the book value of £2.7B, allowing Lloyds to make a pretax gain of £540M. One of the buyers is Goldman Sachs (GS), which is paying £200M for MBSs with a book value of £170M. Lloyds' shares are +0.5% in London. (PR)
2013-5-30	GS		Fiat (FIATY.PK) is reportedly in negotiations with major banks to borrow up to $10B that the Italian carmaker would use to acquire the 41.5% of Chrysler it doesn't own and refinance the two companies' debt at lower interest rates. The banks include Bank of America (BAC), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs (GS) (GS) and BNP Paribas (BNOBF.PK). Fiat's purchase of the holding is being held up by a legal dispute over the value of the stake.
2013-5-24	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) has gotten the nod from the Indian government to help it raise money by creating and launching ETFs of state-run companies, according to a senior official. The government initially aims to have 15-20 state-run firms in a basket of ETFs. Remember, this program was only made necessary by the government's inability to interest P-E and other investors in buying stakes. Price matters. Caveat emptor.
2013-5-23	GS		"Everyone has to have big eyes, big ears, know what's going on around them and be policemen for the organization," says Goldman Sachs (GS) CEO Blankfein to employees as part of the annual meeting. Among the reforms after a 3-year review of bank practices: Proposed transactions need to be run through "technological matrixes" to check for appropriateness. Don't me afraid to call me, says Blankfein, as the risk of reputational damage outweighs the cost of wasting his time. (Video to be posted to website later)
2013-5-23	GS		The sale of the rest of its stake in Industrial Bank doesn't mean Goldman Sachs (GS) isn't committed to growing in China, says Lloyd Blankfein, speaking from Salt Lake City - site of Goldman's annual meeting today. Roll this one around: Goldman reaped about $12B in sales proceeds and dividends from its $2.58B investment made in 2006 just ahead of the IPO.
2013-5-20	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) plans to sell the remainder of its stake in Industrial and Commercial Bank of China at between HK$5.47-5.50 per Hong Kong-listed share (~3% below Monday's closing price) for proceeds of around $1.1B. GS has divested its stake over three separate sales (counting the current offering), with the first coming in April of 2012 and the second earlier this year. GS has held a stake in the bank since 2006.
2013-5-17	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) launches the Goldman Sachs Multi-Manager Alternatives Fund offering alternative and non-traditional investment strategies to investments as little as $1K. P-E firms from CG to KKR to BX have noted much of their future growth will not from the institutional side, but from individuals in search of yield.
2013-5-16	GS		Described as a win for Wall Street's biggest swaps dealers - JPM, BAC, C, MS, and GS - the CFTC approves new swap trading rules 3 years after the passage of Dodd-Frank. The rules mandate new trading platforms making bids and offers public, but require traders send request for bids to just two firms before execution rather than the five some had called for. Smaller exchanges aren't sweating it, instead happy they now have a defined system to operate under.
2013-5-15	GS		It's a parking ticket, but Goldman Sachs (GS) is ordered by an arbitration panel to pay about $2.5M to a client who claimed being steered to an inappropriate investment in the bank's Special Opportunities Fund in 2006. In a rare move, one of the three on the panel disagreed with the verdict, and found the fund was a suitable investment for the client.
2013-5-15	GS		Commodity trading revenue at the top 10 global investment banks plunged 54% Y/Y to just $1.2B, according to Coalition. The outliers are Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM), both of which reported slight increases in activity (Q2 looking decent at JPM as well). Leading on the downside was a 77% drop at Morgan Stanley (MS), whose commodity desk has been alternatively on the block or set for restructuring.
2013-5-14	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) wins dismissal of ACA Financial Guaranty's fraud lawsuit over the famed Abacus CDO. ACA claimed it was duped into believing Paulson & Co. was long the CDO when, in fact, the hedge fund was short. A NY appeals court said ACA could have figured this out, but chose not to investigate. Goldman has already paid the SEC $550M over the Abacus deal.
2013-5-14	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) mulls its options in wake of Bloomberg reporters using terminals to snoop on the bank's employees, including using encrypted Twitter accounts or creating a secure instant-messaging app that could be used by the trading community inside - and outside - of Goldman.
2013-5-7	GS		A NY appeals court reverses a lower court ruling, and says Goldman Sachs (GS) will have to face a fraud suit over $275M in MBS brought by CIFG Assurance, which claims it was duped into insuring the shoddy paper.
2013-5-1	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) sells a majority stake in its reinsurance business - Global Atlantic Financial Group - a move made necessary by more stringent capital requirements. Neither terms nor details on the size of Goldman's remaining stake were made available. The unit had revenue of $233M in Q1. (PR)
2013-5-1	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) apparently sees accounting issues at Ebix (EBIX +4.8%) a bit differently than Gotham City Research as an affiliate of the bank inks a deal to buy the company for $20/share in cash. (PR)
2013-4-17	GS		"Too little has been changed to avoid a repeat of the problem," says the Boston Fed's Eric Rosengren, arguing banks with broker-dealer units continue to hold too little capital. "The status quo represents an ongoing financial stability risk." The largest ones still standing are MS, UBS, GS, C, DB, CS, BAC, BCS, and JPM, and each of the U.S. ones passed the Fed stress test and are returning capital.
2013-4-16	GS		"I wish I could tell you when," says Goldman Sachs (GS -1.6%) CFO Harvey Schwartz, responding to an earnings call question about when M&A might pick up. Schwartz calls such activity a lagging indicator, meaning a longer period of solid business may be necessary before gains might be seen. Asked about implementation of the Volcker Rule (which keeps getting pushed out), Schwartz says he's more concerned with the quality of the rule-making than the timing.
2013-4-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is chosen by India as the asset manager for an ETF made up of state-owned companies. The fund is part of an effort by the government to raise up to $7.4B by selling stakes in state firms. The ETF is likely to be launched in the next couple of months. EPI -10.8% YTD, but the Sensex gained 2.1% overnight.
2013-4-16	GS		More on Goldman Sachs (GS) Q1 earnings: Investment banking revenues of $1.57B, up 36% Y/Y, led by a 63% gain in underwriting business - think lots of corporate debt offerings and commercial mortgage activity. FICC (trading) revenues continue soft, -7% Y/Y. Compensation expense flat Y/Y, compensation rato falls to 43% from 44%. Non-compensation expenses flat Y/Y. Share repurchases of $1.52B at average cost of $150.53/share. Basel capital ratio of 16.7%. Shares +0.4% premarket. (PR) 
2013-4-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS): Q1 EPS of $4.29 beats by $0.43. Revenue of $10.09B beats by $0.49B. (PR)
2013-4-16	GS		Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open: AMTD, BLK, CMA, GS, GWW, JNJ, KO, NTRS, USB, WWW
2013-4-15	GS		Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open: AMTD, BLK, CMA, GS, GWW, JNJ, KO, NTRS, USB, WWW
2013-4-15	GS		The Brown/Vitter bill being rolled out in Congress is essentially Armageddon to the TBTF banks, says Goldman, seeing it as mandating another $1.1T in equity for the banking system. Banks would need 12 years of earnings to build this amount organically, though the bill would give just 5 - say goodbye to lending. Break up the banks? BAC, C, JPM, and WFC all have multiple divisions with more than $400M in assets - the level at which the bill gets tough on lenders.
2013-4-15	GS		A top rainmaker for Goldman Sachs' (GS) Middle-Eastern operation - Khaled Eldabag - resigned last week, according to sources. Among the Dubai-based Eldabag's top clients is the Abu Dhabi investment fund, Mubadala. Goldman led investment banks in M&A deals in the Middle East last year with $5.9B worth.
2013-4-14	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) increased the annual salary package of CEO Lloyd Blankfein by 75% to $21M for 2012, making him the world's best-paid bank chief. While Blankfein's basic salary stayed unchanged at $2M, his cash bonus and stock award were almost doubled to a respective $5.7M and $13.3M. Other senior executive also received pay rises. The increases come after Goldman's net profit almost doubled and its shares rose 41% in 2012. (SEC filing)
2013-4-12	GS		"We continue to be very focused on the reputation of the firm," says Goldman Sachs' (GS) lead outside director James Schiro in his first letter to shareholders. Earlier this week, CtW Investment Group withdrew its proposal to break up the Chairman and CEO's roles after meeting with Schiro. Among Schiro's moves is the formation of a "public responsibilities" subcommittee. Isn't that one of the knocks on Goldman?
2013-4-12	GS		A break-up of the big banks is on the minds of none other than analysts at the banks themselves. Wells Fargo reckons shareholders might "intensify demands" for it, especially as the likes of Bank of America (BAC), Citigroup (C) and JPMorgan (JPM) trade at discounts of 25-30% to more-focused rivals. JPM's analysts have questioned the viability of running an investment bank "as part of a universal banking business."
2013-4-11	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS -0.6%) may be exploring a sale of its Metro metals warehousing business just three years after it bought the firm for $550M. Although Metro has proven a lucrative money spinner as stockpiles of aluminum have mounted in its global network, a sale may indicate GS is scaling back its once-storied commodities trading arm, where revenues have fallen by ~90% since 2009 to just $575M last year.
2013-4-10	GS		Lloyd Blankfein will keep his dual role as CEO and chairman of Goldman Sachs (GS +1.8%) after the bank reaches an agreement with Win Investment Group which withdrew its proxy after the deal. Win, which enjoys union support, says its lead director James Schiro will now set the agenda for GS's board and will write a separate letter the stockholders in annual proxy statements, according to Reuters. Next up, Jamie Dimon. 
2013-4-10	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) has possibly generated $1.2B in revenue over the past six years from its involvement with Dollar General (DG), Reuters guesstimates. Goldman, which took part in Dollar General's leveraged buyout in 2007, has earned money from the sale of the retailer's stock after its IPO in 2009, as well as from management fees, interest payments and other charges.
2013-4-9	GS		Banks this Friday will begin making payments to ~4.2M borrowers whose homes were in any stage of foreclosure in 2009-10. The payments, which will range from $300 to $125K, are compensation for the robo-signing scandal when bank employees said foreclosure documents were correct without reviewing them. Part of the settlement: BAC, C, GS, HBC, JPM, MET, MS, PNC, SAN, STI, USB, WFC.
2013-4-9	GS		JPMorgan Chase (JPM) will lead big U.S. banks in job cuts with 17K expected through 2014, according to Bloomberg, after the six largest U.S. banks announced cuts to 1.8%, or 21K positions, during Q1. The housing rebound means many of the cuts will come in foreclosure units. Banks may tell more about their personnel plans starting this Friday when JPM and Wells Fargo (WFC) report Q1 results.
2013-4-8	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) have Q1 estimates cut at Sandler O'Neill, which says fixed-income, currencies and commodities trading has been solid, "but less favorable" than hoped. Sandler's estimates remain above consensus, with Goldman EPS now at $4 vs. $3.80 and Morgan at $0.60 vs. $0.57.
2013-4-7	GS		A bipartisan Senate bill would force all banks to hold capital of 10% and those with over $400B in assets an extra 5%. The strictest provisions would hit six banks: JPMorgan (JPM), BofA (BAC), Citigroup (C), Wells Fargo (WFC), Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS). Analysts reckon the bill has little chance of becoming law, although its authors reckon support for the measures are growing.
2013-4-2	GS		Credit Suisse takes metaphorical chips off the table, downgrading MS, SCHW, and CME to Hold after nice runs for each has them exceeding price targets established when the bank made them Buys. Morgan's top ideas in the financial sector: GS, LAZ, ICE, APO, BX, CG.
2013-4-2	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is downgraded to Hold at BAML with price target of $155. It's a valuation call, says BofA, as the big move in Goldman shares leaves limited upside at this point. Goldman's off 0.4% premarket.
2013-4-1	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) loses senior metals trader Scott Evans. Evans' adieu comes on the heels of copper trader David Freeland's departure last month. Reuters notes that "the departure of a founding member of the [bank's physical base metals] desk is another sign that [Goldman] is struggling to expand into the capital-intensive business dominated by commodity merchants Glencore and Trafigura."
2013-4-1	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) gets into the business development company (BDC) business, launching Liberty Harbors Capital, LLC to lend to mid-size companies without credit ratings. Goldman expects the new unit will not be covered under the Volcker Rule and it plans to offer shares "as soon as practicable."
2013-3-28	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is initiated with a Buy rating and $175 price target at Guggenheim, while Morgan Stanley (MS) is initiated a Neutral with $25 price target. Goldman -0.4% premarket.
2013-3-26	GS		More on Goldman/Buffett: The amended warrant deal looks to make Berkshire (BRK.B) one of the top 10 holders of Goldman (GS), with about a 2% stake - all without costing Berkshire any additional money. For Goldman - under the Fed's watchful eye on capital levels - it''s a far less dilutive deal than what it might have faced. GS -0.2% after an early 1.5% pop.
2013-3-26	GS		Warren Buffett (BRK.B) becomes a long-term investor in Goldman Sachs, agreeing to amend his warrant agreement to accept shares for any difference between the $115 exercise price and the value of the stock on Oct. 1, 2013. Buffett: "We intend to hold a significant investment in Goldman Sachs." GS +1.4% premarket. (PR)  
2013-3-19	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) poaches another executive from a rival, reportedly hiring Catherine Rich, Deutsche Bank's foreign exchange sales director. She will join Goldman's Sydney office as an executive director and focus on sales to institutional clients such as  fund managers. (previous)
2013-3-18	GS		The Supreme Court declines to hear an appeal by Goldman Sachs (GS) over an investor lawsuit concerning MBS. The ruling allows to move forward a pension fund's request to seek class-action status on behalf of investors in MBS which the fund did not participate in.
2013-3-14	GS		After hours movers in the banks: JPM -2.5% and GS -2.1% after the two had their capital proposals approved but were asked to submit new plans "to address weakness in their capital planning processes." WFC +0.4%, BAC +3.8% after no dividend hike, but a whopping $10.5B in share repurchases and redemption of high-yielding preferreds. Morgan Stanley +0.9%. The XLF +0.1%.
2013-3-14	GS		The Fed approves the capital return plans of 14 financial institutions, with two - Ally and BBT - having their proposals rejected, and two - GS and JPM - receiving conditional approval, and asked to resubmit their plans by the end of Q3.
2013-3-14	GS		Goldman Sachs' (GS) metals trading chief David Freeland exits just a year after being hired, his departure another sign the company is having trouble expanding into the commodity trading business dominated by the likes of Glencore. With new regulations choking off prop trading, Goldman hoped, but has yet to be able to boost commodity revenues.
2013-3-14	GS		A lawsuit accusing P-E firms of conspiring to drive down prices on target acquisitions moves forward after a federal judge declines a motion to dismiss. The judge also a allowed a separate action over KKR's acquisition of HCA ($32B deal) to proceed. Those sued include: BX, APO, CG, GS.
2013-3-13	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) will hold its annual meeting in Salt Lake City,  the first time it's ever been outside of the NYC area. Lured by low taxes, and a cheaper, but well-educated workforce, Goldman is fast building out operations in Utah as it cuts back elsewhere.
2013-3-13	GS		Goldman Sachs' (GS) hunt for Morgan Stanley (MS) big guns maybe miffed at the bank's new cost-cutting regime continues, reports the NYPost. "People who you thought wouldn't consider moving are now at least taking our calls," says a source. Goldman last week nabbed Morgan Asia investment bank chief Kate Richdale.
2013-3-12	GS		It's tough out there. Goldman Sachs (GS) is among the banks accepting a thin fee for underwriting Japan's sale of $10B of Japan Tobacco stock. The government will pay 0.531% vs. 1.125% it paid when it last unloaded shares 9 years ago. 
2013-3-8	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) looks like it will have to put on its proxy a shareholder proposal to vote for an independent chairman after the SEC says it does not believe the measure can be omitted.
2013-3-8	GS		A check of the largest banks premarket after last night's stress test results: C +2.1%, JPM -0.8%, BAC +0.3%, WFC +0.5%, MS -1.6%, GS -0.3%. The XLF +0.6%.
2013-3-8	GS		Chinese investors are in talks to acquire a 40% holding in the General Motors Building in Manhattan in a deal that would value the 50-story skyscraper at $3.4B, including debt, making it the most valuable tower in the U.S. The investors, who are led by the family of Soho China CEO Zhang Xin, would acquire the holding from a Goldman Sachs (GS) fund that represents Persian Gulf interests. The owner of the other 60% is Boston Properties (BXP).
2013-3-7	GS		After-hours movers following the Fed Stress Tests: Citigroup (C +2.5%) is the biggest gainer after looking like it's the most overcapitalized of the large banks with a 8.3% common ratio. BAC +0.8%. GS -0.7%, MS -1% after both just squeaked over the 5% bar. There's not a lot of movement in the rest of the banks.
2013-3-7	GS		More on the Fed Stress Tests: The exams measured to make sure banks' Tier 1 Common Ratio remained above 5% in the Fed's "severely adverse" economic scenario - GDP falling 5%, the UE rate rising to 12%, a 50% fall in stocks, and recessions overseas, among a number of other variables. This table shows the results, with GS and MS just passing, and BAC, C, WFC, and JPM getting by with a little more room.
2013-3-7	GS		Fed Stress Tests: Ally Financial is the only bank not meeting the Fed standards.  All of the other 18 holding companies showed a Tier 1 Common Ratio higher than 5% under the central bank's severe loss scenario.
2013-3-7	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) plans to name managing directors every two years vs. the current annual selection, according to a firm memo. The move, says management, will allow the firm to devote more time to the selection process. The change also comes as the bank hits a "critical mass" of MDs.
2013-3-7	GS		Described as one of the most high-profile defections in years, Morgan Stanley's (MS) Asia investment bank chief Kate Richdale is leaving for Goldman Sachs (GS). The move may have to do with Richdale's testy relationship with Morgan's co-CEO for Asia, Wei Sun Christianson.
2013-3-7	GS		The big U.S. banks are considering defying the Fed and announcing capital return plans shortly after stress tests are released this afternoon, reports Bloomberg. The Fed wants the lenders to wait another week, but bank lawyers worry the plans will leak out. It's under discussion, JPM CFO Lake told an investor conference (transcript) Tuesday. XLF +0.6%.
2013-3-5	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) Brazil investment banking chairman Daniel Weinstein is reportedly leaving the company less than a year after being named to the position. He is one of just 2 partners at Goldman who is based in Brazil.
2013-3-5	GS		KeyCorp (KEY), State Street (STT), Goldman Sachs (GS), JPMorgan (JPM), and BB&T (BBT) make RBC's list of best-capitalized banks - those that the Fed this month should allow dividends/buybacks of 75-100% of earnings. WFC, FITB, and MTB are in the middle of the pack and should be allowed payouts of 50-75%. Capital laggards - BAC, C, and COF - may only be allowed payouts of 10-30% of earnings.
2013-3-1	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) took its value-at-risk down to $86M in 2012, 24% below 2011, and the lowest level in 7 years, according to its 10-K filing. VaR measures how much a firm can lose in a day with 95% confidence. It works wonderfully except in the panicky times when it's most needed.
2013-2-27	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) loses a top European rainmaker with the retirement of Dorothee Blessing, co-head of investment banking in Germany. Blessing - the wife of Commerzbank CEO Martin Blessing - is expected to step down mid-year to concentrate on family life.
2013-2-25	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) plans to begin a fresh round of job cuts commencing as early as this week, reports Reuters. Thinning of the herd by about 5% is typical at this time of the year for Goldman, and it's likely the equities side will face larger cuts than fixed income (the opposite of last year).
2013-2-25	GS		Goldman Sachs' (GS) David Loeb - a managing director whose name surfaced as having provided information about tech companies to Raj Rajaratnam - has left the firm. Loeb was never charged with any wrongdoing.
2013-2-22	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) has become ensnared in the investigation into the suspicious trading of Heinz (HNZ) options ahead of the announcement of its $28B buyout, with the account that carried out the trade owned a "private wealth client" of the bank. Goldman, which hasn't been accused of wrongdoing, said it doesn't have "direct access" to information about who owns the account. Given Swiss secrecy laws, the SEC will have a job finding out.
2013-2-15	GS		"The Goldilocks era of post-crisis M&A has never been an if, but a when," says JPMorgan (JPM) vice-chair James Lee. "CEOs are declaring that day has come." Including the Berkshire buy, $40B in deals were announced yesterday and $140B this month. Transaction volume is up 27% Y/Y vs. an 8% slump for 2012. It should mean sweet profits for the newly lean banks.
2013-2-12	GS		There's an investing lesson in here somewhere. Harris Interactive's 2013 Reputation Quotient survey shows Amazon (AMZN) moving past Apple as the country's reputation leader. Bank of America (BAC) retains a spot in the bottom 5 (along with HAL, GS, and AIG), but enjoyed the largest reputation rebound in 2012. Maybe of most interest are those dropping off the list of visible companies, including: UPS, KSS, and GIS.
2013-2-11	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) taps rising star Gregg Lemkau to join Gene Sykes as global co-heads of M&A. Just 43 and a partner for 10 years, Lemkau is currently the M&A chief for Europe and Asia-Pacific. M&A's current sluggishness can't last if investment banks want to make up for what may be permanently slowed trading business.
2013-2-8	GS		Goldman Sachs' (GS) lucrative P-E business is set to shrink thanks to the Volcker rule which will force the bank to dramatically cut its participation in its own funds. A key selling point for investors has always been the bank and its partners investing right alongside, but no more. Bank of America (BAC) is exiting P-E altogether and Citigroup (C) is exploring its options.
2013-2-5	GS		Apple (AAPL) bulls might be interested/relieved/concerned to know the stock's decline was enough to shake Whitney Tilson out of his long position (annual letter). Into 2013, his fund's largest holdings show a decided tilt towards financials - with BRK.B, AIG, C, and GS making the top 5. He's also an investor in Kyle Bass' fund making a big bet on a weaker yen and higher Japanese interest rates.
2013-2-5	GS		Jim O'Neill will retire from Goldman Sachs (GS) after nearly 20 years at the firm, most recently as chairman of GS Asset Management.
2013-1-31	GS		ACA Financial amends its $120M lawsuit against Goldman Sachs (GS) to include John Paulson's hedge fund, claiming the two conspired to hide Paulson's short interest in the ill-fated Abacus CDO.
2013-1-28	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) seeks to raise $1B, putting part of its stake in China's Industrial Bank on offer for 3% lower than the price at the close of Hong Kong trading, reports Bloomberg. Goldman had invested $2.58B in the world's largest bank in 2006. Sell high: The shares have risen about 50% in the last 6 months, and stand at a 18-month high.
2013-1-25	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is cut to Hold at Deutsche Bank which says the stock's big run has put it at a premium to other large investment banks, but the firm doesn't have the same opportunity for cost savings as some of its brethren. (Previous: Deutsche ups JPMorgan)
2013-1-25	GS		"Central banks of the world are trying to penalize you for being in cash," says a bullish Lloyd Blankfein. "I'm more shareholder than employee," he says, responding to a question over whether he would leave GS if he were paid less.
2013-1-24	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) has asked the SEC to allow it to stop an investor proposal that calls for the bank to appoint an independent chairman from appearing on a proxy ballot. Meanwhile, GS yesterday won a $580M suit in which it was accused of negligence for its role as an adviser to speech-recognition company Dragon Systems in its all-stock acquisition in 2000 by a Belgian firm that soon afterwards filed for bankruptcy after being exposed for fraud.
2013-1-18	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is cashing in on the German real estate boom, reportedly planning to raise up to $2B in an IPO of LEG Immobilien, a German residential landlord of which it owns about 95%.
2013-1-17	GS		Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher yesterday called for the break up of a dozen too-big-to-fail banks, each with assets of over $250B. While Fisher didn't name all 12, he showed a presentation slide with a list of the top five banks: JPMorgan (JPM), Bank of America (BAC), Goldman Sachs (GS), Citigroup (C) and Morgan Stanley (MS). Fisher believes his position is receiving rising support in the Fed and Congress.
2013-1-16	GS		Don't look for bonus pay deferrals - as Morgan Stanley is doing - at Goldman Sachs (GS +2.7%), as CFO Harvey Schwartz (in his first conference call as CFO) calls the action "mortgaging the future." David Viniar says goodbye after his 55th call. (earnings)
2013-1-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) and Morgan Stanley (MS) will pay $557M to borrowers in their own foreclosure-related settlement with the Fed (both banks previously owned mortgage servicing units).
2013-1-16	GS		More on Goldman Sachs (GS) Q4 earnings: Compensation ratio of 37.9% vs. 42.4% a year ago. Headcount -3% Y/Y. Investment banking revenues +64% Y/Y. FICC revenue +50% Y/Y. Business was good, but the big jumps also reflect a weak 2011 Q4. Shares +2.1% premarket. (PR)
2013-1-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS): Q4 EPS of $5.6 beats by $2.17. Revenue of $9.24B beats by $1.76B. (PR)
2013-1-16	GS		Notable earnings before Wednesday’s open: BK, CMA, FRC, GS, JPM, MTB, NTRS, SCHW, USB, WEN
2013-1-15	GS		Notable earnings before Wednesday’s open: BK, CMA, FRC, GS, JPM, MTB, NTRS, SCHW, USB, WEN
2013-1-15	GS		Under pressure from the U.K. government, including BOE Governor King, Goldman Sachs (GS) has reportedly dropped a plan to delay payment of U.K. bonuses until after April 6, when the top income tax rate is scheduled to fall to 45% from 50%.
2013-1-9	GS		Among Doug Kass' 15 surprises for 2013 will be new Senator Elizabeth Warren spearheading the introduction of a financial transaction tax. Combined with weak capital markets, reduced M&A activity, and narrow net interest margins, its makes the XLF and GS sells.
2013-1-9	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS), HSBC (HBC) and Ally Financial could reportedly reach a $1.5B deal with regulators this week to settle allegations of foreclosure abuse, and end a costly and ineffective review of individual repossessions. The agreement would be similar to the $8.5B+ deal that ten other banks reached earlier this week.
2013-1-8	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) will switch to daily disclosure of money-market futual fund values from monthly reports, in a bid for transparency, WSJ reports - notable since other companies in the $2.7T industry (which has chafed against regulation) may need to follow suit. A seawall against - or an accelerant to - future buck-breaking?
2013-1-8	GS		Bloomberg has discovered a secretive Goldman Sachs (GS) department called Multi-Strategy Investing (MSI) that has no clients and uses the bank's funds to invest in stocks and bonds. While MSI doesn't trade in and out of positions on a daily basis, it sells most assets after a few months. The activities seem to somewhat fly in the face of Lloyd Blankfein's assertion in July that Goldman no longer carries out proprietary trading.
2013-1-7	GS		Goldman-backed LEG Immobilien looks to be one of Europe's first IPOs of 2013. The firm - which owns more than 900K (mostly residential) properties in Germany - looks to be taking advantage of a hot real estate market there to raise as much as €1B.
2013-1-3	GS		Abbott Labs (ABT), Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) and Sanofi (SNY) have all displayed an interest in Warburg Pincus' Bausch & Lomb. Warburg, working through Goldman Sachs (GS), is hoping to get at least $10B for the business and is seeking first-round bids by month’s end. The $10B price tag would be a major coup for Warburg, raking in a 200% return off its $1.7b equity investment.
2013-1-2	GS		As 2012 drew to a close, Goldman Sachs (GS) eased the tax burden on 10 of its top officers, issuing stock awards ahead of schedule, thus allowing the executives to sell before the higher tax rates of the new year kicked in.
2013-1-2	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS +2.2%) is maintained a Buy at Credit Suisse, with Howard Chen sharply lifting his Q4 EPS estimate to $4.60 from $2.50 (Street consensus $3.21).
2012-12-18	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is upgraded to Buy at Susquehanna, with price target of $149. The analysts cited recent cutbacks in staffing levels and says with competition limited, the firm is well-positioned to pick up business in the fixed income and trading areas. Everybody likes the banks all of a sudden. Shares +0.5% premarket.
2012-12-14	GS		Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) gains liquidity and breathing room to effect its turnaround by securing financing of €1.615B of senior secured credit facilities, which have maturities of 3-6.5 years and are being underwritten by Credit Suisse (CS) and Goldman Sachs (GS). Alcatel-Lucent expects the facilities to be secured by its vast IP portfolio and for the financing to be completed by January. Shares +13.7% in Paris. (PR)
2012-12-12	GS		"Oh, I've had enough," says Lloyd Blankfein, after being asked if he's had enough of being CEO of Goldman Sachs (GS). He quickly adds, however, he prefers it to sitting at home watching TV. "I think it's a very high likelihood, close to 100%, that the next leader of Goldman Sachs is at Goldman Sachs."
2012-12-12	GS		The Fed is reportedly discouraging the top U.S. banks from making large acquisitions as it informally uses powers it received under the Dodd-Frank Law and attempts to limit the ability of banks to threaten the stability of the financial system should they fail. Those told not to make major purchases include Capital One Financial (COF) after its $9B acquisition of ING's U.S. online business.
2012-12-11	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) gets the nod by Warburg Pincus to explore a sale of Bausch & Lomb, the company's eye-care division. Warburg is said to be seeking at least $10B for the business. According to reports, Goldman has already contacted Sanofi (SNY), GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), and Merck (MRK) this month, and that Abbott Laboratories (ABT) will be among the other companies contacted.
2012-12-10	GS		The Bank of England and FDIC unveil the first cross-border plan to deal with too-big-to-fail banks that start...failing. Senior management would be sacked, shareholders would be wiped out, and unsecured bondholders "can expect that their claims would be written down to reflect any losses that shareholders cannot cover," which didn't happen in the financial-crisis bailouts. (PR)
2012-11-29	GS		The CFTC yesterday unanimously approved a rule that will require top swap dealers, including Goldman Sachs (GS) and JPMorgan (JPM), to guarantee certain trades at clearinghouses owned by LCH.Clearnet, CME (CME) and Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). The CFTC says the new regulation will lower risk and "eliminates the need for market participants to individually determine counterparty credit risk."
2012-11-26	GS		Canadian P-E firm Onex agrees to acquire U.S. insurance broker USI from GS Capital Partners, Goldman Sachs' (GS) P-E fund, for $2.3B. (PR)
2012-11-26	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) jumps ship in southern Europe, choosing to become the only major U.S. player not to take part in bank offerings in Spain, Italy, and Portugal this year. Burned by a couple of offerings in 2011, Goldman is focused on non-financials in the region as well as banks in the more stable EU areas.
2012-11-26	GS		UBS (UBS) is due to ask an Appeals Court today to dismiss a lawsuit from the FHFA over losses on $6.4B in mortgage bonds sold to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. UBS argues that the claims expired in 2010 and so are time-barred by the statute of repose. The stakes are high not just for UBS but also for several other banks that the FHFA has sued for a similar reason, including JPM, Barclays (BCS) and GS.
2012-11-23	GS		Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) is reportedly exploring a number of options to raise cash and boost its balance sheet. The beleaguered telecom-equipment company is in negotiations with Goldman Sachs (GS) about a loan, and it is considering the sale of assets such as units that manufacture undersea fiber-optic cables and provide equipment to businesses. Alcatel-Lucent is also looking at how to monetize its huge patent portfolio.
2012-11-19	GS		News Corp (NWS) will reportedly this week close a deal to acquire 49% in YES TV, the home TV channel of the New York Yankees, and will have an option to boost the stake to 80% within 3-5 years. YES would be valued at $3B under the initial transaction, more than the Yankees, whose holding company owns 34% in the cable channel. Goldman Sachs (GS) and Providence Equity own another 40%. (previous)
2012-11-15	GS		More on Fed stress tests: The previously discussed conditions are what's known as the "Severely Adverse Scenario." There's also the "Adverse Scenario" and the "Baseline." The 19 largest banks under review are far better capitalized than 3 years ago, carrying nearly double the buffer (on roughly the same asset base). It looks like more returns of capital are coming.
2012-11-15	GS		News Corp (NWS) is reportedly in advanced talks to buy a stake - possibly almost 40% - in YES, the cable channel that televises New York Yankees games. News Corp is likely to acquire most of the holding from Goldman Sachs (GS) and Providence Equity Partners. The potential deal is likely to value YES at $3B.
2012-11-14	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) names 70 new partners, the lowest amount since the 1999 IPO. Just two years ago, as profits rebounded following the financial crisis, the firm moved 110 into partnership. Head count at the firm has declined to 32.6K from 35.4K in 2010. 
2012-11-14	GS		KAR Auction Services (KAR) has ended its attempts to sell itself following the breakdown of negotiations with P-E firm Clayton Dubilier & Rice over price and other transaction terms, Reuters reports. The vehicle auction company, which has a market cap of $2.38B, is 78%-owned by a group of P-E firms, including Goldman Sachs Capital Partners (GS).
2012-11-13	GS		More on Goldman Sachs (GS) (previous): Lloyd Blankfein tells an audience the firm is increasingly focused on becoming the "low-cost" provider for the industry. With technology nearly eliminating profit margins, Goldman plans to make up for it on volume - not good news any traders who haven't already been replaced by machines. More than 20% of firm employees work outside of major financial centers, up from 10% 5 years ago.
2012-11-13	GS		New capital rules will increase Goldman Sachs' (GS) risk-weighted assets by 67% to $728B, a number it aims to pare to below $700B by the end of 2013, says Lloyd Blankfein, speaking at a BAML conference. HIgher risk-weighted assets, of course, mean higher capital needs, making it harder to hit ROE levels desired by investors.
2012-11-13	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) retreats from the South Korean investment management business, closing shop there 5 years after entering the hyper-competitive market. The news isn't great for ING, which is trying to find a buyer for its Asian investment management operations, of which South Korea is a part.
2012-11-11	GS		Spotify is attempting to raise over $100M at a valuation of more than $3B, the WSJ reported on Friday, adding that one of the prospective investors is Goldman Sachs (GS). The valuation would represent a three-fold increase on the $1B the Internet radio service was worth when it raised $100M in 2011 from VC firms.
2012-11-5	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) names AIA CEO Mark Tucker to its board of directors. The move expands the board to 12 members, 10 of whom are independent, thus making the group a little less insider-heavy. The former CEO of Prudential, Tucker has led AIA since 2009, and was at the helm during this fall's IPO of the company out of AIG. (PR)
2012-11-5	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) has reduced the number of partners by 31 to 407 in the nine months since February as part of its cost-cutting efforts. However, Goldman has set aside $10.97B for compensation so far in 2012, up 10% from a year ago. Bloomberg has the list of who's out.
2012-11-2	GS		Citigroup (C), Deutsche Bank (DB), HSBC (HBC) and JPMorgan (JPM) will have to hold an extra 2.5% of Tier 1 Capital on top of the 7% minimum required under Basel III rules, regulators said yesterday. Barclays (BCS) and BNP Paribas will need an extra 2%, while eight banks, including BofA (BAC) and Goldman Sachs (GS), will need 1.5%. Overall, 28 banks are considered "global systemically important" and have to hold extra capital. Lloyds (LYG) has dropped off the list but BBVA (BBVA) and StanChart have joined it.
2012-10-23	GS		Contrary to a WSJ report, Goldman Sachs (GS) says it's never "seriously" considered selling off its commodities operation to fit into any new regulatory structure. Morgan Stanley (MS) on the other hand, has been in continuing talks to unload a majority stake in its commodity business to Qatar's SWF.
2012-10-22	GS		S&P more than doubles to $10B the amount of annual profit it estimates banks stand to lose as a result of the Volcker rule. "Stricter rules could lead us to take negative rating actions on certain banks." In addition to the usual 6 TBTF names, PNC and USB were included in the analysis. The combined profits of all 8 lenders will sum to less than $100B this year.
2012-10-22	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) loses its bid to dismiss a $1B lawsuit over CDOs loaded with toxic subprime mortgages it sold to an Australian hedge fund. One of the CDOs - Timberwolf - was famously described by Goldman mortgage department chief Thomas Montag as "one s------ deal."
2012-10-18	GS		Hawker Beechcraft plans to emerge from bankruptcy protection as a standalone company after talks for a $1.79B sale with a Chinese suitor broke down. The company, which is owned by Goldman Sachs (GS) and Onex, intends to change its name to Beechcraft and focus on turboprop, piston, special mission and trainer/attack aircraft. The firm is evaluating options for its Hawker products, including closing the jet business. (PR)
2012-10-17	GS		Financials (XLF +1.2%) lead today's sectors and extend their lead as 2012's top performer, now up 25% YTD and 33% over the past 12 months. While investors struggle to gain clarity on BofA's (BAC -0.1%) prospects, M&T Bank (MTB +5.6%) and BNY Mellon (BK +5.2%) rank among the day’s big gainers after both reported strong quarters. C +3%, GS +1%, JPM +1.2%.
2012-10-16	GS		More on Goldman Sachs (GS): Investment banking revenues of $1.16B were up 49% from last year's horrid Q3, but down 3% from last quarter. Revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) rose 1% Q/Q. The compensation and benefits:revenues ratio remains at last year's pace of 44%. Shares -1.2% premarket after an initial pop as the "beat" isn't due to strength in the company's core operations. (PR)
2012-10-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) declares $0.50/share quarterly dividend, 8.7% increase from prior dividend of $0.46. Forward yield 1.60%. For shareholders of record Nov 30. Payable Dec 28. Ex-div date Nov 28. Shares +0.8% premarket. (PR)
2012-10-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS): Q3 EPS of $2.85 beats by $0.66. Revenue of $8.35B beats by $1.2B. Shares -0.6% premarket. (PR)
2012-10-16	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) appoints P-E executive Adebayo Ojunlesi as an independent director on its board. The move expands the board to 11 members, 9 of whom are independent. The company expects to soon appoint another independent director as it seeks to ease concerns the board had become to "insider-heavy." (PR)
2012-10-16	GS		Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open: DPZ, FRX, GS, GWW, IRWD, JNJ, KO, MAT, OMC, PNC, STT, UNH
2012-10-15	GS		Notable earnings before Tuesday’s open: DPZ, FRX, GS, GWW, IRWD, JNJ, KO, MAT, OMC, PNC, STT, UNH
2012-10-12	GS		JPM’s Q3 results in investment banking and trading were impressive, a good sign for Goldman Sachs (GS), Morgan Stanley (MS) and perhaps BofA (BAC), KBW's Fred Cannon says: "The upside on the read-across leads us to believe BAC will post a beat to the Street in the quarter and gives us increased confidence around our $0.15 operating estimate."
2012-10-11	GS		It's the usual suspects who stand to be affected by Fed Governor Tarullo's call to cap the size of banks' non-deposit liabilities. JPM, BAC, GS, and C all have ratios greater than 5% of U.S. GDP. Morgan Stanley (MS) and Wells Fargo (WFC) are substantially below. "This is a major new direction for the Fed," says Simon Johnson. "There is agreement across the political spectrum ... (the banks) should be made smaller and simpler."
2012-10-11	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) is not at a funding disadvantage because it doesn't take deposits, says COO Gary Cohn. It's a misperception, he says, pointing out deposits can only be used to fund certain areas of a bank's business. "Our investment-banking business is on equal footing with everyone else's."
2012-10-11	GS		Goldman Sachs' "muppet hunt" reportedly comes up empty as an internal investigation is unable to find one incident of a client/customer being referred to as such. Ex-employee Greg Smith, who leveled the charge in March, continues with his 15 minutes - "Why I Left Goldman Sachs," is slated for publication this month.
2012-10-11	GS		U.S. equities get upgraded to Overweight at Citigroup thanks to "the combination of strong EPS momentum and a very aggressive central bank." The S&P 500 will score a 12% gain by year's end, predicts Tobias Levkovich. The "most-favored" 20 global stocks includes these from the U.S.: AES, CSX, GS, GOOG, QCOM, SBUX, AES.
2012-10-3	GS		Amerigroup (AGP) has delayed a shareholder vote on its $4.5B acquisition by WellPoint (WLP) by two weeks, and will now hold it on Oct 23. The postponement comes after investors sued Amerigroup's board, arguing that adviser Goldman Sachs (GS) was "hopelessly conflicted" and pushed Amerigroup into a deal with WellPoint over a more lucrative bid from another suitor. Amerigroup is also now open to a better offer.
2012-10-1	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) gaps higher 2% premarket after it gets the Barron's treatment in a good way over the weekend.
2012-9-29	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) "operates via institutionalized paranoia," writes Michael Santoli in a bullish Barron's cover story. In other words, Goldman behaves as IB's did in the days when a partner's capital was actually on the line. Executives known for risk management are promoted (contrast to Citi's Chuck "Gotta dance while the music's playing" Prince), giving investors - with shares on offer for 90% of TBV - a bit of comfort no matter how turbulent markets may become.
2012-9-27	GS		Housing may help bank profits, but for the big boys, sluggish doesn't begin to describe the capital markets business. Normally running at 2% of global market cap, equity issuance of late has been more like 1%, says Goldman, which isn't expecting a bounce soon. Expect more layoffs in the sector, says Nomura's Glenn Schorr, as recent headcount reductions haven't even come close to matching the slowdown in business.
2012-9-27	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) agrees to pay nearly $12M to settle a pay-for-play scheme in which it was charged with making undisclosed campaign contributions to the then-Massachusetts state treasurer while he ran for governor. Instead of cash, says the SEC, a Goldman banker - Neil Morrison - used his office to essentially run a campaign operation for Tim Cahill. The case against Morrison is still pending.
2012-9-26	GS		European Union regulators are suspending their antitrust investigation into preferential tariffs on credit default swaps allegedly offered by ICE Clear Europe - owned by InterContinentalExchange (ICE) - to nine banks: Bank of America (BAC), Barclays Bank (BCS), Citigroup (C), Credit Suisse (CS), Deutsche Bank (DB), Goldman Sachs Group (GS), JPMorgan Chase (JPM), Morgan Stanley (MS) and UBS (UBS).
2012-9-26	GS		Wall Street firms will likely reduce bonuses rather than cut jobs to control expenses this year, says Morgan Stanley's Betsy Graseck. Compensation will probably drop from a year ago as banks attempt to avoid further headcount reductions after culling their ranks heavily last year, with most of the cuts coming from employee bonuses rather than base salaries. And bonuses, as we all know, represent a disproportionately large percentage of the income for Wall Street professionals.
2012-9-19	GS		Blackstone (BX) agrees to acquire Vivint for $2B from initial investors Goldman Sachs (GS), Jupiter and Peterson, Vivint CEO Todd Pedersen tells Bloomberg, confirming earlier speculation. The company provides home-security, energy-management and solar-power leases to over 670K North America households.
2012-9-18	GS		"I'll be a holder for a long time," says exiting Goldman Sachs (GS) CFO David Viniar, responding to Mike Mayo's query about why he's leaving with the shares so low and if he's selling any of his stake. The biggest risk the firm faces, says Viniar, is "liquidity, liquidity, liquidity." The uneventful conference has ended.
2012-9-18	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) has named Harvey Schwartz, the global co-head of its securities arm, its next CFO. Schwartz will replace David Viniar, who is retiring after a 12-year stint as CFO, at the end of Jan. '13. Goldman adds Viniar will join Goldman's board, and that the company expects to appoint additional directors in the near-term. The firm will discuss the move in a 5 p.m. call. (PR)
2012-9-13	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) does away with its signature right-of-passage - the 2-year entry-level analyst program at which scores of young Whartonites (and kids from other schools) are introduced to Wall Street through 100 hour weeks of photocopying, creating spreadsheets, and eating super-expensive takeout at their desk. The shift comes as the company is losing its best analysts to the buy side.
2012-9-12	GS		Unsealed court documents show how Blackstone (BX), Goldman Sachs' (GS) P-E arm, Bain and other firms appear to have colluded on bids for companies they were buying in order keep prices down. In Bain's $32.1B purchase of hospital giant HCA in 2006, rival suitors agreed to "stand down" as part of an understanding to divide up the acquisition of other firms. The documents are part of a lawsuit against the firms for the actions.
2012-9-11	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) and Jefferies (JEF) are both downgraded to Hold by previously bullish Kenneth Leon at S&P Capital IQ. Eying the big runs in both stocks over the last month, Leon reminds the operating environment for both remains less than ideal.
2012-9-10	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) will get none of the hoped-for $20M fee it requested for helping to arrange El Paso's sale to Kinder Morgan, according to the just-reached legal settlement. Goldman's PE group owned about a 19% stake in Kinder, raising cries of conflict of interest.
2012-9-10	GS		In conflict with its own management team, Goldman analysts conclude structural, not cyclical factors are behind the poor performance of the U.S. banking sector. More than half of the top 25 U.S. banks aren't earning enough to cover their cost of capital, says the team, which recommends the big players improve returns by shrinking business lines and instead using the money to buy back shares.
2012-9-10	GS		Goldman Sachs (GS) and P-E firm CVC Capital propose a $3.8B debt-for-equity swap for Australian TV network Nine whereby CVC would lose control of the broadcaster to creditors that hold A$2.7B ($2.8B) of its debt, including Apollo Global (APO) and Oaktree, Reuters reports. Under the agreement, senior lenders would get 70% of Nine, while Goldman, which holds A$975M in mezzanine debt, would receive 30%.
2012-9-7	GS		Big bank stocks have been on a tear, but a JMP Securities analyst says investors should take profits now, calling the rally unwarranted. The ECB's new plan likely won't have much effect, he says, since it only addresses high borrowing costs for Spain and Italy and doesn’t tackle other issues like Greece. A Greek collapse isn’t being priced in, he says; if it happens, big bank stocks "will fall dramatically."
2012-9-7	GS		Goldman Sachs' (GS) management still believes the bank can return to delivering 20% ROE, says Sandler O'Neill's Jeff Harte after meeting a trio of executives. Of late, returns have been in the single digits, prompting a few to wonder if Goldman would ever return to past glory. Until that day, says Harte, expect the bank to continue to return capital to shareholders.
2012-9-7	GS		The Carlyle Group (CG) pays an undisclosed sum to purchase the North American power generation assets from Goldman Sachs' (GS) Cogentrix Energy. The assets include coal and solar projects in Florida, Virginia, Colorado, and California as well as a development pipeline of gas and renewable power projects. (PR)
2012-9-6	GS		A setback for Goldman Sachs (GS), a federal appeals court reinstates a previously tossed suit accusing the bank of misleading investors in 2007 about the risks of MBS. By itself a minor case, the ruling could give impetus to hundreds or thousands of other claims still out there.
2012-9-6	GS		NextEra Energy (NEE -0.4% to $66.86) agrees to sell $650M of equity units to Goldman Sachs (GS), Barclays (BCS) and Citigroup (C). Each unit will be issued in a stated amount of $50, and will consist of a contract to buy shares for $67.15-$80.58 by Sept. 1, 2015. The units also include a 5% undivided beneficial ownership interest in a NextEra debenture that's due in five years. (PR)
2012-9-4	GS		More on the Goldman (GS) downgrade: Giving Goldman kudos for its "best-in-class risk management," JPMorgan nevertheless sees shares as too rich for today's poor investment banking environment, and ranks the bank dead last (as a buy idea) among global IBs. Shares are richer this morning, +1.3%.
2012-9-4	GS		Morgan Stanley (MS) is upgraded to Overweight with price target of $20 at JPMorgan, which also downgrades Goldman Sachs (GS) to Underweight. Details are slim at the moment, but valuation seems to be behind the paired calls. Morgan +2.4%, Goldman -0.2% premarket.
